An area of low pressure may develop in the southwestern Gulf of Mexico or northwestern Caribbean by early next week.
Severe thunderstorms may start the week in the East.
Extreme heat will dominate the Southwest through next week.
A cold front will bring cooler temperatures along with showers and storms to the northern tier.
Heading toward the summer solstice next week, there certainly will be a summery feel in much of the U.S.
Extreme heat will dominate the Southwest next week, while the East will experience multiple chances for thunderstorms. In addition, there are two areas being monitored in the tropics for possible development.
Below we take a closer look at what to expect next week.
An area of shower and thunderstorm activity in the western Caribbean may become more organized into next week. The National Hurricane Center (NHC) has given this area a medium chance of development within the next 5 days near Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula.
If an area of low pressure develops, it could strengthen into a tropical depression or tropical storm next week. 
It is too soon to tell if there will be any direct impacts to the U.S. or eastern Mexico. 
However, this disturbance will likely increase tropical moisture in the Gulf of Mexico and may enhance rainfall in Florida and along portions of the Gulf coast. High surf and rip currents will also be concerns.
(MORE: Hurricane Central)
There is also another tropical wave in the far eastern Atlantic Ocean that has been given a medium chance of development by the NHC. This system is far from land, but we will continue to monitor this system, named Invest 92L.
Be sure to check back to weather.com for updates. weather weather weather weather
A cold front will move into the Midwest this weekend, reaching the East Coast early next week. Scattered strong to severe thunderstorms are possible with this system.
(MORE: Severe Thunderstorm Outlook)
Ahead of this cold front, warm and humid conditions are expected to be in place, which will help in the development of strong to severe storms.
The risk for severe thunderstorms will be found from the interior Northeast into the Ohio Valley on Sunday. This threat will then slide east on Monday, with the highest chance for severe storms stretching from the mid-Atlantic into New England.
Damaging wind gusts and large hail will be the primary concerns with any severe thunderstorms that develop Sunday into Monday, although an isolated tornado cannot be ruled out.
Heavy rainfall is also possible, which could lead to localized flash flooding.
Southwest Will Continue to Sizzle
Extremely hot and dangerous temperatures will take hold of the Southwest this weekend into next week. This dangerous heat is due to an upper-level ridge of high pressure that will build over the region.
(MORE: Extreme Heat Forecast)
High temperatures will climb higher than 110 degrees in the Desert Southwest, with highs above 100 degrees in the Central Valley of California. High temperatures will remain 10 to 20 degrees above average in the Southwest and Great Basin for much of next week.
weather
Scattered showers and thunderstorms are expected to continue tracking east into Friday, with storms possible from the Midwest into the Northeast. Showers and thunderstorms may linger toward the East Coast into Saturday.
(MORE: Weekly Planner)
At least a few strong to severe thunderstorms are possible, but it is too early for details.
In addition, ahead of this system, there may be a brief surge of warmer and more humid conditions in the East late next week, with 80s and 90s possibly returning briefly to portions of the mid-Atlantic and Northeast.
MORE ON WEATHER.COM: Florida Storms and Flooding
weather weather weather weather