An anime is a Japanese hand-drawn or computer animation. The word is the abbreviated pronunciation of "animation" in Japanese, where this term references all animation.[1] Outside Japan, anime is used to refer specifically to animation from Japan or as a Japanese-disseminated animation style often characterized by colorful graphics, vibrant characters and fantastical themes.[2][3] Arguably, the culturally abstract approach to the word's meaning may open up the possibility of anime produced in countries other than Japan.[4][5][6] For simplicity, many Westerners strictly view anime as a Japanese animation product.[3] Some scholars suggest defining anime as specifically or quintessentially Japanese may be related to a new form of orientalism.[7]
The earliest commercial Japanese animation dates to 1917, and Japanese anime production has since continued to increase steadily. The characteristic anime art style emerged in the 1960s with the works of Osamu Tezuka and spread internationally in the late twentieth century, developing a large domestic and international audience. Anime is distributed theatrically, by way of television broadcasts, directly to home media, and over the Internet. It is classified into numerous genres targeting diverse broad and niche audiences.
Anime is a diverse art form with distinctive production methods and techniques that have been adapted over time in response to emergent technologies. It consists of an ideal story-telling mechanism, combining graphic art, characterization, cinematography, and other forms of imaginative and individualistic techniques.[8] The production of anime focuses less on the animation of movement and more on the realism of settings as well as the use of camera effects, including panning, zooming, and angle shots. Being hand-drawn, anime is separated from reality by a crucial gap of fiction that provides an ideal path for escapism that audiences can immerse themselves into with relative ease.[8] Diverse art styles are used and character proportions and features can be quite varied, including characteristically large emotive or realistically sized eyes.
The anime industry consists of over 430 production studios, including major names like Studio Ghibli, Gainax, and Toei Animation. Despite comprising only a fraction of Japan's domestic film market, anime makes up a majority of Japanese DVD sales. It has also seen international success after the rise of English-dubbed programming. This rise in international popularity has resulted in non-Japanese productions using the anime art style, but these works are usually described as anime-influenced animation rather than anime proper.
Anime is an art form, specifically animation, that includes all genres found in cinema, but it can be mistakenly classified as a genre.[9] In Japanese, the term anime refers to all forms of animation from around the world.[1][10] In English, anime (/ˈænəˌmeɪ/) is more restrictively used to denote a "Japanese-style animated film or television entertainment" or as "a style of animation created in Japan".[2][11]
The etymology of the word anime is disputed. The English term "animation" is written in Japanese katakana as アニメーション (animēshon, pronounced [animeːɕoɴ])[3] and is アニメ (anime) in its shortened form.[3] Some sources claim that anime derives from the French term for animation dessin animé,[12][13] but others believe this to be a myth derived from the French popularity of the medium in the late 1970s and 1980s.[3] In English, anime—when used as a common noun—normally functions as a mass noun. (For example: "Do you watch anime?" or "How much anime have you collected?")[14] Prior to the widespread use of anime, the term Japanimation was prevalent throughout the 1970s and 1980s. In the mid-1980s, the term anime began to supplant Japanimation.[12][15] In general, the latter term now only appears in period works where it is used to distinguish and identify Japanese animation.[16]
The word anime has also been criticised, e.g. in 1987, when Hayao Miyazaki stated that he despised the truncated word anime because to him it represented the desolation of the Japanese animation industry. He equated the desolation with animators lacking motivation and with mass-produced, overly expressionistic products relying upon a fixed iconography of facial expressions and protracted and exaggerated action scenes but lacking depth and sophistication in that they do not attempt to convey emotion or thought.[17]
The first format of anime was theatrical viewing which originally began with commercial productions in 1917.[18] Originally the animated flips were crude and required played musical components before adding sound and vocal components to the production. On July 14, 1958, Nippon Television aired Mogura no Abanchūru ("Mole's Adventure"), both the first televised and first color anime to debut.[19] It wasn't until the 1960s when the first televised series were broadcast and it has remained a popular medium since.[20] Works released in a direct to video format are called "original video animation" (OVA) or "original animation video" (OAV); and are typically not released theatrically or televised prior to home media release.[21][22] The emergence of the Internet has led some animators to distribute works online in a format called "original net anime" (ONA).[23]
The home distribution of anime releases were popularized in the 1980s with the VHS and LaserDisc formats.[21] The VHS NTSC video format used in both Japan and the United States is credited as aiding the rising popularity of anime in the 1990s.[21] The Laser Disc and VHS formats were transcended by the DVD format which offered the unique advantages; including multiple subtitling and dubbing tracks on the same disc.[24] The DVD format also has its drawbacks in the its usage of region coding; adopted by the industry to solve licensing, piracy and export problems and restricted region indicated on the DVD player.[24] The Video CD (VCD) format was popular in Hong Kong and Taiwan, but became only a minor format in the United States that was closely associated with bootleg copies.[24]
Japanese animation began in the early 20th century, when Japanese filmmakers experimented with the animation techniques also pioneered in France, Germany, the United States and Russia.[13] A claim for the earliest Japanese animation is Katsudō Shashin, an undated and private work by an unknown creator.[25] In 1917, the first professional and publicly displayed works began to appear. Animators such as Ōten Shimokawa and Seitarou Kitayama produced numerous works, with the oldest surviving film being Kouchi's Namakura Gatana, a two-minute clip of a samurai trying to test a new sword on his target only to suffer defeat.[18][26][27] The 1923 Great Kantō earthquake resulted in widespread destruction to Japan's infrastructure and the destruction of Shimokawa's warehouse, destroying most of these early works.[28]
By the 1930s animation was well established in Japan as an alternative format to the live-action industry. It suffered competition from foreign producers and many animators, Noburō Ōfuji and Yasuji Murata, who still worked in cheaper cutout animation rather than cel animation.[29] Other creators, Kenzō Masaoka and Mitsuyo Seo, nonetheless made great strides in animation technique; they benefited from the patronage of the government, which employed animators to produce educational shorts and propaganda.[30] The first talkie anime was Chikara to Onna no Yo no Naka, produced by Masaoka in 1933.[31][32] By 1940, numerous anime artists' organizations had risen, including the Shin Mangaha Shudan and Shin Nippon Mangaka.[33] The first feature-length animated film was Momotaro's Divine Sea Warriors directed by Seo in 1944 with sponsorship by the Imperial Japanese Navy.[34]
A frame from Momotaro's Divine Sea Warriors (1944), the first feature-length anime film
The success of The Walt Disney Company's 1937 feature film Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs profoundly influenced many Japanese animators.[35] In the 1960s, manga artist and animator Osamu Tezuka adapted and simplified many Disney animation techniques to reduce costs and to limit the number of frames in productions.[36] He intended this as a temporary measure to allow him to produce material on a tight schedule with inexperienced animation staff.[37] Three Tales, aired in 1960, was the first anime shown on television.[38] The first anime television series was Otogi Manga Calendar, aired from 1961 to 1964.[39]
The 1970s saw a surge of growth in the popularity of manga, Japanese comic books and graphic novels, many of which were later animated. The work of Osamu Tezuka drew particular attention: he has been called a "legend"[40] and the "god of manga".[41][42] His work—and that of other pioneers in the field—inspired characteristics and genres that remain fundamental elements of anime today. The giant robot genre (known as "mecha" outside Japan), for instance, took shape under Tezuka, developed into the Super Robot genre under Go Nagai and others, and was revolutionized at the end of the decade by Yoshiyuki Tomino who developed the Real Robot genre. Robot anime like the Gundam and The Super Dimension Fortress Macross series became instant classics in the 1980s, and the robot genre of anime is still one of the most common in Japan and worldwide today. In the 1980s, anime became more accepted in the mainstream in Japan (although less than manga), and experienced a boom in production. Following a few successful adaptations of anime in overseas markets in the 1980s, anime gained increased acceptance in those markets in the 1990s and even more at the turn of the 21st century. In 2002, Spirited Away, a Studio Ghibli production directed by Hayao Miyazaki won the Golden Bear at the Berlin International Film Festival and in 2003 at the 75th Academy Awards it won the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature.
Anime are often classified by target demographic, including kodomo (children's), shōjo (girls'), shōnen (boys') and a diverse range of genres targeting an adult audience. Shoujo and shounen anime sometimes contain elements popular with children of both sexes in an attempt to gain crossover appeal. Adult anime may feature a slower pace or greater plot complexity that younger audiences typically find unappealing, as well as adult themes and situations.[43] A subset of adult anime works feature pornographic elements and are labeled "R18" in Japan, but internationally these works are grouped together under the term hentai (Japanese for "pervert"). By contrast, a variety of anime subgenres across demographic groups incorporate ecchi, sexual themes or undertones without depictions of sexual intercourse, as typified in the comedic or harem genres; due to its popularity among adolescent and adult anime enthusiasts, incorporation of ecchi elements in anime is considered a form of fan service.[44][45]
Anime's genre classification is different from other types of animation and does not lend itself to simple identity.[46] Gilles Poitras compared the labeling Gundam 0080 and its complex depiction of war as a "giant robot" anime akin to simply labeling War and Peace a "war novel".[46] Science fiction is a major anime genre and includes important historical works like Tezuka's Astro Boy and Yokoyama's Tetsujin 28-go. A major subgenre of science fiction is mecha, with the Gundam metaseries being iconic.[47] The diverse fantasy genre includes works based on Asian and Western traditions and folklore; examples include the Japanese feudal fairytale InuYasha, and the depiction of Scandinavian goddesses who move to Japan to maintain a computer called Yggdrasil in Ah! My Goddess.[48] Genre crossing in anime is also prevalent, such as the blend of fantasy and comedy in Dragon Half, and the incorporation of slapstick humor in the crime anime Castle of Cagliostro.[49] Other subgenres found in anime include magical girl, harem, sports, martial arts, literary adaptations, medievalism,[50] and war.[51]
Genres have emerged that explore homosexual romances. While originally pornographic in terminology, yaoi (male homosexuality) and yuri (female homosexuality) are broad terms used internationally to describe any focus on the themes or development of romantic homosexual relationships. Prior to 2000, homosexual characters were typically used for comedic effect, but some works portrayed these characters seriously or sympathetically.[52]
Anime differs greatly from other forms of animation by its diverse art styles, methods of animation, its production, and its process. Visually, anime is a diverse art form that contains a wide variety of art styles, differing from one creator, artist, and studio. While no one art style predominates anime as a whole, they do share some similar attributes in terms of animation technique and character design.
Anime follows the typical production of animation, including storyboarding, voice acting, character design, and cel production (Shirobako, itself a series, highlights many of the aspects involved in anime production). Since the 1990s, animators have increasingly used computer animation to improve the efficiency of the production process. Artists like Noburō Ōfuji pioneered the earliest anime works, which were experimental and consisted of images drawn on blackboards, stop motion animation of paper cutouts, and silhouette animation.[53][54] Cel animation grew in popularity until it came to dominate the medium. In the 21st century, the use of other animation techniques is mostly limited to independent short films,[55] including the stop motion puppet animation work produced by Tadahito Mochinaga, Kihachirō Kawamoto and Tomoyasu Murata.[56][57] Computers were integrated into the animation process in the 1990s, with works such as Ghost in the Shell and Princess Mononoke mixing cel animation with computer-generated images.[58] Fuji Film, a major cel production company, announced it would stop cel production, producing an industry panic to procure cel imports and hastening the switch to digital processes.[58]
Prior to the digital era, anime was produced with traditional animation methods using a pose to pose approach.[53] The majority of mainstream anime uses fewer expressive key frames and more in-between animation.[59]
Japanese animation studios were pioneers of many limited animation techniques, and have given anime a distinct set of conventions. Unlike Disney animation, where the emphasis is on the movement, anime emphasizes the art quality and let limited animation techniques make up for the lack of time spent on movement. Such techniques are often used not only to meet deadlines but also as artistic devices.[60] Anime scenes place emphasis on achieving three-dimensional views, and backgrounds are instrumental in creating the atmosphere of the work.[13] The backgrounds are not always invented and are occasionally based on real locations, as exemplified in Howl's Moving Castle and The Melancholy of Haruhi Suzumiya.[61][62] Oppliger stated that anime is one of the rare mediums where putting together an all-star cast usually comes out looking "tremendously impressive".[63]
The cinematic effects of anime differentiates itself from the stage plays found in American animation. Anime is cinematically shot as if by camera, including panning, zooming, distance and angle shots to more complex dynamic shots that would be difficult to produce in reality.[64][65][66] In anime, the animation is produced before the voice acting, contrary to American animation which does the voice acting first; this can cause lip sync errors in the Japanese version.[67]
Body proportions of human anime characters tend to accurately reflect the proportions of the human body in reality. The height of the head is considered by the artist as the base unit of proportion. Head heights can vary, but most anime characters are about seven to eight heads tall.[68] Anime artists occasionally make deliberate modifications to body proportions to produce super deformed characters that feature a disproportionately small body compared to the head; many super deformed characters are two to four heads tall. Some anime works like Crayon Shin-chan completely disregard these proportions, such that they resemble Western cartoons.
A common anime character design convention is exaggerated eye size. The animation of characters with large eyes in anime can be traced back to Osamu Tezuka, who was deeply influenced by such early animation characters as Betty Boop, who was drawn with disproportionately large eyes.[69] Tezuka is a central figure in anime and manga history, whose iconic art style and character designs allowed for the entire range of human emotions to be depicted solely through the eyes.[70] The artist adds variable color shading to the eyes and particularly to the cornea to give them greater depth. Generally, a mixture of a light shade, the tone color, and a dark shade is used.[71][72] Cultural anthropologist Matt Thorn argues that Japanese animators and audiences do not perceive such stylized eyes as inherently more or less foreign.[73] However, not all anime have large eyes. For example, the works of Hayao Miyazaki are known for having realistically proportioned eyes, as well as realistic hair colors on their characters.[74]
Anime and manga artists often draw from a defined set of facial expressions to depict particular emotions
Hair in anime is often unnaturally lively and colorful or uniquely styled. The movement of hair in anime is exaggerated and "hair action" is used to emphasize the action and emotions of characters for added visual effect.[75] Poitras traces hairstyle color to cover illustrations on manga, where eye-catching artwork and colorful tones are attractive for children's manga.[75] Despite being produced for a domestic market, anime features characters whose race or nationality is not always defined, and this is often a deliberate decision, such as in the Pokémon animated series.[76]
Anime and manga artists often draw from a common canon of iconic facial expression illustrations to denote particular moods and thoughts.[77] These techniques are often different in form than their counterparts in Western animation, and they include a fixed iconography that is used as shorthand for certain emotions and moods.[78] For example, a male character may develop a nosebleed when aroused.[78] A variety of visual symbols are employed, including sweat drops to depict nervousness, visible blushing for embarrassment, or glowing eyes for an intense glare.[79]
The opening and credits sequences of most anime television episodes are accompanied by Japanese pop or rock songs, often by reputed bands. They may be written with the series in mind, but are also aimed at the general music market, and therefore often allude only vaguely or not at all to the themes or plot of the series. Pop and rock songs are also sometimes used as incidental music ("insert songs") in an episode, often to highlight particularly important scenes.[80]
The animation industry consists of more than 430 production companies with some of the major studios including Toei Animation, Gainax, Madhouse, Gonzo, Sunrise, Bones, TMS Entertainment, Nippon Animation, P.A.Works, Studio Pierrot and Studio Ghibli.[81] Many of the studios are organized into a trade association, The Association of Japanese Animations. There is also a labor union for workers in the industry, the Japanese Animation Creators Association. Studios will often work together to produce more complex and costly projects, as done with Studio Ghibli's Spirited Away.[81] An anime episode can cost between US$100,000 and US$300,000 to produce.[82] In 2001, animation accounted for 7% of the Japanese film market, above the 4.6% market share for live-action works.[81] The popularity and success of anime is seen through the profitability of the DVD market, contributing nearly 70% of total sales.[81] According to a 2016 article on Nikkei Asian Review, Japanese television stations have bought over ¥60 billion worth of anime from production companies "over the past few years", compared with under ¥20 billion from overseas.[83] There has been a rise in sales of shows to television stations in Japan, caused by late night anime with adults as the target demographic.[83] This type of anime is less popular outside Japan, being considered "more of a niche product".[83] Spirited Away (2001) is the all-time highest-grossing film in Japan.[84][85] It was also the highest-grossing anime film worldwide until it was overtaken by Makoto Shinkai's 2016 film Your Name.[86] Anime films represent a large part of the highest-grossing Japanese films yearly in Japan, with 6 out of the top 10 in 2014, in 2015 and also in 2016.
Anime has to be licensed by companies in other countries in order to be legally released. While anime has been licensed by its Japanese owners for use outside Japan since at least the 1960s, the practice became well-established in the United States in the late 1970s to early 1980s, when such TV series as Gatchaman and Captain Harlock were licensed from their Japanese parent companies for distribution in the US market. The trend towards American distribution of anime continued into the 1980s with the licensing of titles such as Voltron and the 'creation' of new series such as Robotech through use of source material from several original series.[87]
In the early 1990s, several companies began to experiment with the licensing of less children-oriented material. Some, such as A.D. Vision, and Central Park Media and its imprints, achieved fairly substantial commercial success and went on to become major players in the now very lucrative American anime market. Others, such as AnimEigo, achieved limited success. Many companies created directly by Japanese parent companies did not do as well, most releasing only one or two titles before completing their American operations.
Licenses are expensive, often hundreds of thousands of dollars for one series and tens of thousands for one movie.[88] The prices vary widely; for example, Jinki: Extend cost only $91,000 to license while Kurau Phantom Memory cost $960,000.[88] Simulcast Internet streaming rights can be less expensive, with prices around $1,000-$2,000 an episode,[89] but can also be more expensive, with some series costing more than US$200,000 per episode.[90]
The anime market for the United States was worth approximately $2.74 billion in 2009.[91] Dubbed animation began airing in the United States in 2000 on networks like The WB and Cartoon Network's Adult Swim.[92] In 2005, this resulted in five of the top ten anime titles having previously aired on Cartoon Network.[92] As a part of localization, some editing of cultural references may occur to better follow the references of the non-Japanese culture.[93] The cost of English localization averages US $10,000 per episode.[94]
The industry has been subject to both praise and condemnation for fansubs, the addition of unlicensed and unauthorized subtitled translations of anime series or films.[95] Fansubs, which were originally distributed on VHS bootlegged cassettes in the 1980s, have been freely available and disseminated online since the 1990s.[95] Since this practice raises concerns for copyright and piracy issues, fansubbers tend to adhere to an unwritten moral code to destroy or no longer distribute an anime once an official translated or subtitled version becomes licensed. They also try to encourage viewers to buy an official copy of the release once it comes out in English, although fansubs typically continue to circulate through file sharing networks.[96] Even so, the laid back regulations of the Japanese animation industry tends to overlook these issues, allowing it to grow underground and thus increasing the popularity until there is a demand for official high quality releases for animation companies. This has led to an increase in global popularity with Japanese animations, reaching $40 million in sales in 2004.[97]
Legal international availability of anime on the Internet has changed in recent years, with simulcasts of series available on websites like Crunchyroll.
Anime has become commercially profitable in Western countries, as demonstrated by early commercially successful Western adaptations of anime, such as Astro Boy. Early American adaptions in the 1960s made Japan expand into the continental European market, first with productions aimed at European and Japanese children, such as Heidi, Vicky the Vicking and Barbapapa, which aired in various countries. Particularly Italy, Spain and France grew an interest into Japan's output, due to its cheap selling price and productive output. Especially Italy imported the most anime outside of Japan.[99] These mass imports influenced anime popularity in South American, Arabic and German markets.[100]
The beginning of 1980 saw the introduction of Japanese anime series into the American culture. In the 1990s, Japanese animation slowly gained popularity in America. Media companies such as Viz and Mixx began publishing and releasing animation into the American market.[101] The growth of the Internet provided Western audiences an easy way to access Japanese content.[97] This is especially the case with net services such as Netflix and Crunchyroll. As a direct result, various interests surrounding Japan has increased.
Anime clubs gave rise to anime conventions in the 1990s with the "anime boom", a period marked by increased popularity of anime.[102] These conventions are dedicated to anime and manga and include elements like cosplay contests and industry talk panels.[103] Cosplay, a portmanteau for "costume play", is not unique to anime and has become popular in contests and masquerades at anime conventions.[104] Japanese culture and words have entered English usage through the popularity of the medium, including otaku, a derogatory Japanese term commonly used in English to denote a fan of anime and manga.[105] Another word that has arisen describing fans in the United States is wapanese meaning White individuals who desire to be Japanese, or later known as weeaboo for individuals who demonstrate a strong interest in Japanese anime subculture, which is a term that originated from abusive content posted on the popular bulletin board website 4chan.org.[106] Anime enthusiasts have produced fan fiction and fan art, including computer wallpaper and anime music videos.[107]
One of the key points that made anime different from popular Western cartoons is the emotional content. Once the expectation that the aspects of visual intrigue or animation being just for children is put aside, the audience can realize that many emotions such as suffering, death, pain, struggle, and joy can all be storytelling elements utilized in anime as much as other types of media.[108] However, as anime itself became increasingly popular, anime styling has been inevitably the subject of both satire and serious creative productions.[3][5] South Park's "Chinpokomon" and "Good Times with Weapons" episodes, Adult Swim's Perfect Hair Forever, and Nickelodeon's Kappa Mikey are examples of satirical depictions of Japanese culture and anime. Some works have sparked debate for blurring the lines between satire and serious "anime style" productions, such as the American anime style production Avatar: The Last Airbender.[5] These anime styled works have become defined as anime-influenced animation, in an attempt to classify all anime styled works of non-Japanese origin.[109] Some creators of these works cite anime as a source of inspiration and like the French production team for Ōban Star-Racers moved to Tokyo to collaborate with a Japanese production team.[110][111][112] When anime is defined as a "style" rather than as a national product it leaves open the possibility of anime being produced in other countries.[2][5] A U.A.E.-Filipino produced TV series called Torkaizer is dubbed as the "Middle East's First Anime Show", and is currently in production,[6] which is currently looking for funding.[113] The web-based series RWBY is produced using an anime art style and has been declared to be anime.[4][114] In addition, the series will be released in Japan, under the label of "anime" per the Japanese definition of the term and referenced as an "American-made anime".[115][116] Netflix declared the company's intention to produce anime.[117] In doing so, the company is offering a more accessible channel for distribution to Western markets.[118] Defining anime as style has been contentious amongst fans, with John Oppliger stating, "The insistence on referring to original American art as Japanese "anime" or "manga" robs the work of its cultural identity."[3][119]
A Complete List of Anime Genres With Explanations and Meanings
Updated on June 25, 2016
Cheeky Kid profile image
Cheeky Kid  more
Cheeky Kid has been watching anime and reading manga ever since he could remember. Every day, he still does. It's his hobby, it's his life!
Contact Author
Anime Genre List
Anime Genre List
What's your stand in anime?
Anime Lover
Casual Watcher
Interested Onlooker
Not Interested
VoteSee results
Complete List of Anime Genres
If you’ve been an enthusiastic watcher of anime just like me all this time, then one thing or another you’ve come to know that each and every show comes with a set of specific genres. There’s a multitude of genres when it comes to anime – action, drama, horror…just to name a few. But, do you even know all of them? Do you think you can recite all of them in one fell swoop?
I know there’s many anime genres in existence (infinite maybe) because they come and go every now and then. But, the most popular ones becomes general enough to stay for a very long time. And so, I’ve come up with this Anime Genre List to serve as a complete guide with explanations and meanings for everyone.
As much as possible, I’ve tried to make this a complete list of anime genres so that it can serve as your very own one-stop compendium for when you’re looking for a genre guide. And so here it is! Whether you’re a die-hard anime fan, a casual watcher, an interested onlooker, or even just a commoner from a non-anime domain – this list of anime genres shall equip you with some basic knowledge and help you venture through the anime world with ease and delight.
Action
The action genre in anime depicts extremely high levels of high-intensity action. More often than not, you’ll be witnessing thrilling battles and action-packed fight scenes in the shows included in this genre. Whether it makes you jump off your seat or knock your own socks off your feet, the feeling is close to those and it’s the rush and excitement of action that would make you want to do those. Overall, the action genre usually possesses lots of battle scenes, fluid animation, and highly-engaging elements that will generally make your adrenaline go rush!
Examples: Top 10 Best Action Anime
Adventure
Adventure as it stands by itself is about travelling and undertaking an adventure in a certain place or around the world (which may sometimes escalate to the whole universe or even to the other dimensions). In this genre, the main characters don’t usually stay in one place, but instead, ventures into several different places usually with a goal in mind (e.g. searching for treasure, exploring some new place, defeating a heinous villain, saving the world, etc.). Adventure anime are so broad and flexible that these shows usually can stretch to a huge number of episodes as well as mix-and-match with every other genre.
Examples: One Piece, Fairy Tail, and Hunter X Hunter
Comedy
The main purpose of the comedy genre is…you got it…to make you laugh! If it fails to make you laugh or at least make you giggle, then it’s a failure. But then again, humor can depend on each and everyone’s perspective. Funny moments, hilarious scenes, wacky dialogues, comical happenings – all of these are covered by the comedy genre in anime!
Examples: Top 10 Best Comedy Anime
Demons
Originally just a theme, the demons genre rose to its ranks because of the rising fame of demon characters and other demon-like elements. As the term demon not only just encompasses literal demon characters, it also extends to other entities such as monsters, beasts, ghosts, and other demon-kind. Believe it or not, this category doesn’t just come hand-in-hand with the horror genre; it surprisingly blends well with the other genres as well (as proven by the huge and ever-increasing number of anime in the demons genre).
Examples: Hataraku Maou-Sama, Inu Yasha, and Chrono Crusade
Drama
Tear-inducing and emotion-stimulating – these are basically what the drama genre does best! Drama anime shows tends to connect the viewers to the experiences of the characters. This results to the viewers feeling just as how the characters they are watching feels. May it be a tickle of emotion or a barrage of feelings, the dramatic scenes’ goal is to connect and touch our emotional spirit. In anime, one of the greatest sign that the drama effectively worked – is if it was able to make you cry/tear.
Examples: Top 10 Best Drama Anime
Ecchi
The word ecchi comes from the sound of “H” in the word hentai, which in turn means “pervert” in Japanese. Having that said, this genre is generally accepted as a category full of slight sexual scenes (mild enough to be viewed by the general audience) and scenarios derived from sexual innuendoes. It’s a fact that ecchi anime shows are taking an upswing nowadays as more and more titles are produced every season as if it’s becoming the trend. More often than not, ecchi is paired up with comedy as both compliments each other well, which in turn serves as a buffer that prevents the shows from crossing the line and delving into much deeper inappropriateness.
Examples: Top 10 Best Ecchi Anime
Fantasy
The fantasy genre in anime primarily deals with fantasy worlds and surreal events and places. Most of the time, the setting is in a magical fantasy world where the characters starts an adventure or sometimes get sent to from the real world. Magic is oftentimes a component of this genre, and various mystical elements serve as the building blocks of the story. You’ll often know it’s a fantasy anime show you’re watching if the environment and atmosphere seems so dazzling and dreamlike that it’ll make you feel captivated and allured.
Examples: No Game No Life, Nanatsu no Taizai, and Inu Yasha
Game
The game category encompasses shows revolving around the idea of gaming and playing. May it be a card game, a board game, a puzzle game, or even a virtual online game - as long as it concerns any playable game of any kind, it belongs to this category. Sometimes, even video-game-based shows can count in this selection.
Examples: Yu-Gi-Oh!, Sword Art Online, and Phi Brain: Puzzle of God
Harem
If you see a male character surrounded by multiple female characters gearing towards an awkward love situation, then you’re probably watching an anime of the harem genre. Usually, it’s more than two female characters head-over-heels over a single male character and they’re all typically inside a comedic and oftentimes even romantic situation. But it can also happen that the harem isn’t affiliated with any sort of romance but instead just for the comic relief.
Examples: Top 10 Best Harem Anime
Hentai
Hentai literally translates to “pervert” in Japanese. This is the R-18 (mature) domain of the anime world which common depicts nudity and highly explicit content. Unlike ecchi, this genre focuses on its explicit sexual content rather than on its storyline and progression. That is why the shows in this category are usually brief and lacking in substance.
Historical
As the name suggests, historical anime revolves around events in history, historical settings, and moments of antiquity. Typical of this genre are shows set in ancient japan and the feudal period. Other settings such as the middle ages and medieval ages also exist but they’re much rarer in anime. Sometimes, as long as the time or setting (or even elements) are old and ancient, then it’s considered a historical anime.
Examples: Rurouni Kenshin, Fushigi Yugi, and Junketsu no Maria
Horror
It’s not much difficult to spot the horror genre in anime. Usually, if there are ghosts, monsters, gore, and creeps, then it’s a horror anime you’re watching. As a general trend, as long as there’s heavy gore and bloody violence in a show, then it’s most probably in the horror category. But, the most important factor for a show to be considered horror is its ability to scare and creep you out.
Examples: Top 10 Best Horror Anime
Josei
Josei is actually a demographic but is also considered as a general genre in anime. It’s a genre that specifically targets female viewers around the age range of 18-40. With that age range, the shows here are depicted in a more mature light usually with very realistic romance and less-dreamy, less-idealized portrayals.
Examples: Nana, Paradise Kiss, and Kuragehime
Kids
A lot of people say that anime is just for kids, but that’s not really true. As a matter of fact, there are only a few number of anime that are precisely catered towards children. These shows are contained within the kids genre in anime. And as it sounds like, these shows are mild, light, and insightful (which is perfect for children 12-years-old and below).
Examples: Pokémon, Machine Robo Rescue, and Doraemon
Magic
Magic in all its essence is about magical stuff like spells and incantations. It can also include magical sources, beings that grants wishes, and good ol’ sleeve tricks. One of the most famous theme in the magic genre is the “magical girls” theme which is becoming so popular that it might just become a whole new genre on its own in the future. In essence, the magic genre is all about magic and all the forces that deals with it.
Examples: Puella Magi Madoka Magica, Magical Doremi, and Magi: Labyrinth of Magic
Martial Arts
Martial arts plays a big role in every anime that has fighting/battles in it. From hand-to-hand combat, to swordplay, to gun shooting, and armed combat – there’s some kind of martial arts element that plays through them. But, did you know that there are shows that are basically focused on martial arts itself and the battle techniques? There’s a lot of them, and they mainly involve hand-to-hand combat and technician battles.
Examples: Hajime no Ippo, History’s Strongest Disciple, and Dragon Ball
Mecha
Mecha stands for mechanical (in this case, mechanical units or robots). You’ll never see a mecha anime without a robot or mechanical suit/object in it. That’s the most important element of it. And while this genre is rising in fame as the days go by, it almost always uses a standard formula to carry the plot. As a general trend, mecha is often seen alongside the military, sci-fi, and action genre.
Examples: Top 10 Best Mecha Anime
Military
As the name implies, the military genre involves the military in one way or another. War may also be a huge part of the military genre as this is the case where the military is often utilized. One thing to note is that the military genre is often coupled with the mecha and action genre.
Examples: Fullmetal Panic, Code Geass, and Kantai Collection
Music
Anime shows in the music genre aren’t that popular nowadays, but they do exists and they are very timely. Shows of the music genre are pretty much very musical throughout the airing. Whether it’s singing, dancing, or playing musical instruments – anime shows of the music genre goes all out when it comes to these things.
Examples: K-On, Beck, and Mermaid Melody Pichi Pichi Pitch
Mystery
If there’s one thing that’s similar in all mystery anime shows, that is the existence of a central mystery. Whether it’s an event, a place, of an item – if there’s some sort of mystery surrounding it, then it can readily be classified in the ranks of mystery anime. In anime history, the most popular shows in the mystery genre are the ones with detectives and gumshoes in them. But generally, if there’s something strange or even a mundane thing that requires getting deeper to get to the root of it, then there’s mystery in it.
Examples: Detective Conan, Hyouka, and Eden of the East
Parody
A parody anime is one which countless numbers of other anime references are showcased throughout the plot. May it be a popular running gag, a famous symbol, a character reference, or any other attempts in bringing another show into its domain – it’s considered as parody. One anime worthy to note is Gintama where they often use similar elements (copycat) from other anime to showcase in their own show.
Examples: Gintama, Blood Lad, and Senyuu
Police
The police genre emphasizes the life and struggles of police characters in their line of duty. Originally just a character reference, police-based characters have shown up in numerous shows that in turn made them befitting of their own genre. Police doesn’t just count police characters – it also counts detectives, investigators, and enforcers in its array.
Examples: You’re Under Arrest, Psycho-Pass, and Lupin the Third
Post-Apocalyptic
Post-Apocalyptic anime are basically shows that occurs/happens in a world that is in a dystopian state (e.g. destroyed world, nearly extinct human race, survival after an apocalypse, etc.). Post-Apocalyptic was merely a theme in the past, but when an influx of titles bearing this theme was realized, it became a genre on its own. As a matter of fact, Post-Apocalyptic anime shows are becoming more and more popular by the day.
Examples: Sidonia no Kishi, Shin Sekai Yori, and Attack on Titan
Psychological
Based on its literal meaning, psychological anime are shows that delves into how the mind, psyche, and thinking works. This genre tackles everything in a very psychological level (sometimes even philosophical). You’ll often find mind games here as well as battles where the use of the wits is the primary focus. Shows that plays with your mind or make you think hard are also part of this genre.
Examples: Death Note, Mirai Nikki, and Zetsuen no Tempest
Reverse Harem
Just as the word “reverse” is in its name, Reverse Harem is the genre that’s the very opposite of reglar harem. That means, with this one, it’s not one male character is to multiple female characters but the other way around. Here, it’s one female character surrounded by multiple male characters (who are all potential love interests).
Examples: Top 10 Best Reverse Harem Anime
Romance
Romance is all about love and sweet moments. Shows involved with this genre often have the skill to tug everyone’s heartstrings with the laid-out romantic scenes and sweet moments. The focus in this one is the romantic relationships of the characters as well as the blooming of their love with one another. You’ll often find romance anime tightly tied with the shoujo genre, but it also works pretty well with comedy, harem, and drama.
Examples: Top 10 Best Romance Anime
School
While school is originally just a setting, there are countless of anime that uses it as such, warranting it to become a successful genre. School anime are shows that are set in a school setting. It’s the school which is the most important factor for this genre. So, if the school is the primary setting of the story (or even secondary), then it’s a school anime.
Examples: Ansatsu Kyoushitsu, Great Teacher Onizuka, and Gokusen
Sci-Fi
Sci-Fi (short for science fiction) is a genre that showcases scientific and technological elements in its story. Machines and various kinds of technologies are staples of this genre. Most of the time, its focus is on the advancement and development of science and technology. That is why you’ll often find sci-fi combined with its complimentary genres – mecha and space.
Examples: Evangelion, Space Dandy, and Cowboy Bebop
Seinen
Seinen is actually a demographic but is also considered as a general genre in anime. It’s a genre that specifically targets male viewers around the age range of 18-40. With that age range, the shows here are depicted in a more mature light and often includes much more explicit content such gore, sex, and violence.
Examples: Berserk, Monster, and Ergo Proxy
Shoujo
Shoujo is actually a demographic but is also considered as a general genre in anime. It’s a genre that specifically targets female viewers around the age range of 10-18. With that age range, the shows here are mostly idealized and well-rounded. Most of the time, the shoujo genre works line-in-line with the romance and the comedy genre (emphasis on the romance part).
Examples: Sailor Moon: Crystal, Gekkan Shoujo Nozaki-kun, and Ao Haru Ride
Shoujo-ai
Shoujo-ai literally translate to “girls love” where the female characters (typically younger girls) show love and affection to each other. Usually, the romance in shoujo-ai is somewhat milder as compared to the much explicit yuri genre. Generally, shoujo-ai portrays blooming feelings of love and romance more than intimate partner contact.
Examples: Aoi Hana and Blue Drop
Shounen
Shounen is actually a demographic but is also considered as a general genre in anime. It’s a genre that specifically targets male viewers around the age range of 10-18. With that age range, the shows here are mostly idealized and well-rounded. Most of the time, shounen anime shows are considered general and almost always even becomes the most trending mainstream shows.
Examples: Naruto, One Piece, and Fairy Tail
Shounen-ai
Shounen-ai literally translates to “boys love” where the male characters (typically younger boys) show love and affection to each other. Usually, the romance in shounen-ai is somewhat milder as compared to the much explicit yaoi genre. Generally, shounen-ai potrays blooming feelings of love and romance more than intimate partner contact.
Examples: Hybrid Child and Gakuen Heaven
Slice of Life
When one says slice of life, that means – mundane good ol’ life. Stories depicted in this genre are realistically set in the domain of real life. Nothing out-of-the-blue happens, but that’s its point! It’s role is to portray everyday life in a realistic light as much as possible, with nothing out of the extraordinary wrecking the premise.
Examples: Barakamon, Non Non Biyori, and Koufuku Graffiti
Space
Yes, it’s a setting but, as many shows are becoming more and more comfortable in using it as a setting, it has already become a genre in itself. As it stands, anything that uses space as a setting is a space anime. In general, anime of this category are often paired-up with the mecha and sci-fi genre.
Examples: Outlaw Star, Cowboy Bebop, and Space Dandy
Sports
Pretty much self-explanatory, sports anime are shows that bases on the very definition of sports. That means, it can tackle on the story of the many sports you know of. Popular choices in this domain includes basketball, tennis, baseball, and soccer. Other sports exists as well (including those that you wouldn’t expect showing up in anime). And as time goes on, more and more are produced. Just like sports, shows lined-up in this genre are also fundamentally action-packed!
Examples: Top 10 Best Sports Anime
Super Power
You’d know you’re watching a super power anime if you’re seeing an array of explosive super powers scrambling right on the screen. Super Power anime aren’t just super – they’re overwhelming! If you see bursts of energy balls, death-defying attacks, and opposing super forces battling it out throughout the story, then that means you’re probably witnessing an anime of the super power genre.
Examples: Dragon Ball, Akira, and Toriko
Supernatural
When one says supernatural, then one thing or another, they’re referring to stuff or events that are odd and out-of-the-blue. For this category, supernatural might take the meaning of mythical, mystical, bizarre, or something outside the bounds of accepted reality. There’s a shadow of mystery often found in shows involved with this genre which then effectively puts the word “super” in supernatural.
Examples: Top 10 Best Supernatural Anime
Tragedy
As the name implies, the tragedy genre revolves around tragic events or phenomenon where the characters are deeply involved and affected. Tragedy comes in diverse varieties such as disasters, accidents, misfortunes, and deaths. Customarily, shows lying within this genre are very dramatic that they can easily touch the emotion of the viewers by relating the experiences of the characters to them.
Examples: Tokyo Magnitude 8.0, Zetsuen no Tempest, and Technolyze
Vampire
As vampires have become so popular throughout the world, it’s to no shock that they’ve also infested the world of anime. There are lots of titles now featuring vampires and the themes surrounding them. And while they’re not just exclusive to the horror category, they’ve also manifested themselves into several other categories such as comedy, romance, and drama. So once you see a vampire in a show you’re watching, you can count that in in the vampire genre.
Examples: Vampire Knights, Shiki, and Nyanpire
Yaoi
Yaoi is the much more sexually explicit counterpart of shounen-ai. This genre covers male-to-male relationships (typically older boys) in a much mature light. If shounen-ai focuses more on blooming feelings, yaoi commonly goes all-the-way both in romance and intimacy.
Examples: Junjou Romantica and Gravitation
Yuri
Yuri is the much more sexually explicit counterpart of shoujo-ai. This genre covers female-to-female relationships (typically older girls) in a much mature light. If shoujo-ai focuses more on blooming feelings, yuri commonly goes all-the-way both in romance and intimacy.
Examples: Yuri Kuma Arashi and Sakura Trick
Abashiri Family	Abashiri Ikka (あばしり一家	OVA	1991	Takashi Watanabe	Studio Pierrot, Tokyo Kids
Absolute Duo	アブソリュート・デュオ Absolute Duo	TV Series	2015	Atsushi Nakayama	8-Bit
A Certain Magical Index	とある魔術の Toaru Majutsu no Indekkusu	TV Series	2008	Hiroshi Nishikiori	J.C. Staff
A Certain Magical Index II	とある魔術の Toaru Majutsu no Indekkusu	TV Series	2010	Hiroshi Nishikiori	J.C. Staff
A Certain Magical Index: The Movie - The Miracle of Endymion	劇場版 とある魔術の禁書目録 エンデュミオンの奇蹟 Gekijōban Toaru Majutsu no Indekkusu: Endyumion no Kiseki	Film	2013	Hiroshi Nishikiori	J.C. Staff
A Certain Scientific Railgun	とある科学の Toaru Kagaku no Rērugan	TV Series	2009	Tatsuyuki Nagai	J.C. Staff
A Certain Scientific Railgun	とある科学の Toaru Kagaku no Rērugan	OVA	2010	Tatsuyuki Nagai	J.C. Staff
A Certain Scientific Railgun	とある科学の Toaru Kagaku no Rērugan S	TV Series	2013	Tatsuyuki Nagai	J.C. Staff
AD Police		OVA	1990	Takamasa Ikegami, Hidehito Ueda, Akira Nishimori	Artmic, AIC
A.D. Police: To Protect and Serve	アドバンスドポリス Adobansudo Porisu	TV Series	1999	Hitoshi Torigoe	AIC
Aesthetica of a Rogue Hero	はぐれ勇者の Hepburn: Hagure Yūsha no Esutetika	TV Series	2012	Rion Kujō	Arms Corporation
Afro Samurai	アフロサムライ Afuro Samurai	TV Series	2007	Fuminori Kizaki, Jamie Simone	Gonzo
Afro Samurai: Resurrection		Film	2009	Fuminori Kizaki	Gonzo
Agent Aika		OVA	1997	Katsuhiko Nishijima	Studio Fantasia
Akira		Film	1988	Katsuhiro Otomo	TMS Entertainment
Angel Beats	エンジェルビーツ! Enjeru Bītsu!	TV Series	2010	Seiji Kishi	P.A. Works
Angel Beats! Stairway to Heaven		OVA	2010	Seiji Kishi	P.A. Works
Angel Beats! Hell's Kitchen		OVA	2015	Seiji Kishi	P.A. Works
Arabian Nights: Sinbad's Adventures	アラビアンナイト シンドバットの冒険 Arabian Naito: Shindobatto no Bōken	TV Series	1975	Fumio Kurokawa	Nippon Animation
Armitage III	アミテージ・ザ・サード Amitēji Za Sādo	OVA	1995	Hiroyuki Ochi	AIC
Armitage III: Poly-Matrix	アミテージ・ザ・サード POLY-MATRIX	Film	1997	Hiroyuki Ochi	AIC
Armitage III: Dual-Matrix	アミテージ・ザ・サード DUAL-MATRIX	Film	2002	Katsuhito Akiyama	AIC
Armored Trooper Votoms	装甲騎兵ボトムズ Sōkō Kihei Botomuzu	TV Series	1983	Ryōsuke Takahashi	Nippon Sunrise
Attack on Titan	Shingeki no Kyojin	TV Series	2013	Tetsurō Araki	Wit Studio, Production I.G
Attack on Titan: Part 1: Crimson Bow and Arrow		Film	2014	Tetsurō Araki	Wit Studio, Production I.G
Attack on Titan: Part 2: Wings of Freedom		Film	2015	Tetsurō Araki	Wit Studio, Production I.G
Baccano	バッカーノ! Bakkāno!	TV Series	2007	Takahiro Omori	Brain's Base
Battle Royal High School	魔人伝 Shin Majin Den Batoru Roiyaru Haisukūru	OVA	1987	Ichiro Itano	Tokuma Shoten
Berserk (1997)	ベルセルク Beruseruku	TV Series	1997	Naohito Takahashi	OLM, Inc.
Berserk (2016)	ベルセルク Beruseruku	TV Series	2016	Shin Itagaki	GEMBA, Millepensee, Liden Films
Black Jack 21	ブラック・ジャック Burakku Jakku	TV Series	2006	Satoshi Kuwabara	Tezuka Productions
Black Lagoon	ブラック・ラグーン Burakku Ragūn	TV Series	2006	Sunao Katabuchi	Madhouse
Black Lagoon: The Second Barrage		TV Series	2006	Sunao Katabuchi	Madhouse
Black Lagoon: Roberta's Blood Trail		OVA	2011	Sunao Katabuchi	Madhouse
Black Magic M-66	ブラックマジック M-66 Burakku Majikku Mario Shikkusuti Shikkusu	OVA	1987	Hiroyuki Kitakubo, Masamune Shirow	AIC, Animate
Black Rock Shooter	ブラック★ロックシューター Burakku Rokku Shūtā	OVA	2010	Shinobu Yoshioka	Ordet
Black Rock Shooter	ブラック★ロックシューター Burakku Rokku Shūtā	TV Series	2012	Shinobu Yoshioka, Hiroyuki Imaishi	Ordet, Sanzigen
Blade of the Immortal	無限の住人 Mugen no Jūnin	TV Series	2008	Kōichi Mashimo	Bee Train, Production I.G
Blassreiter	ブラスレイター Burasureitā	TV Series	2008	Ichiro Itano	Gonzo
Bleach	ブリーチ Burīchi	TV Series	2004	Noriyuki Abe	Studio Pierrot
Bleach: Memories of Nobody		Film	2006	Noriyuki Abe	Studio Pierrot
Bleach: The DiamondDust Rebellion		Film	2007	Noriyuki Abe	Studio Pierrot
Bleach: Fade to Black	君の名を呼ぶ Burīchi Fade to Black Kimi no Na o Yobu	Film	2008	Noriyuki Abe	Studio Pierrot
Bleach: Hell Verse		Film	2010	Noriyuki Abe	Studio Pierrot
Blood+	ブラッドプラス Buraddo Purasu	TV Series	2005	Junichi Fujisaku	Production I.G
Blood-C	ブラッド-C Buraddo-C	TV Series	2011	Tsutomu Mizushima	Production I.G
Blood-C: The Last Dark		Film	2012	Naoyoshi Shiotani	Production I.G
Blood The Last Vampire		Film	2000	Hiroyuki Kitakubo	Production I.G
Blue Exorcist	青の祓魔師（エクソシスト）- Ao no Ekusoshisuto	TV Series	2011	Tensai Okamura	A-1 Pictures
Blue Exorcist: The Movie		Film	2012	Atsushi Takahashi	A-1 Pictures
Blue Exorcist: Kyoto Impure King Arc		TV Series	2017	Koichi Hatsumi	A-1 Pictures
Blue Seed	ブルーシード Burū Shīdo	TV Series	1994	Jun Kamiya	Production I.G
Blue Seed Beyond		OVA	1996	Jun Kamiya, Kiyoshi Murayama	Xebec
Btooom!	ブトゥーム! Butūmu!	TV Series	2012	Kotono Watanabe	Madhouse
Burn Up Scramble	バーンナップスクランブル Bānnappu Sukuranburu	TV Series	2004	Hiroki Hayashi	AIC
Burst Angel	爆裂天使 Bakuretsu Tenshi	TV Series	2004	Koichi Ohata	Gonzo
Burst Angel - Episode Zero: Infinity		OVA	2007	Koichi Ohata	Gonzo
Busou Renkin	武装錬金 Busō Renkin	TV Series	2006	Takao Kato	Xebec
Cardfight! Vanguard	カードファイト!! ヴァンガード Kādofaito!! Vangādo	TV Series	2011	Hatsuki Tsuji	TMS Entertainment, Sotsu, Dentsu
Cardfight! Vanguard: Asia Circuit		TV Series	2012	Hatsuki Tsuji	TMS Entertainment, Sotsu, Dentsu
Cardfight! Vanguard: Link Joker		TV Series	2013	Hatsuki Tsuji	TMS Entertainment
Cardfight! Vanguard: Legion Mate		TV Series	2014	Hatsuki Tsuji	TMS Entertainment
Cardfight! Vanguard G		TV Series	2014	Yui Umemoto	TMS Entertainment
Cardfight! Vanguard G: GIRS Crisis		TV Series	2015	Yui Umemoto	TMS Entertainment
Cardfight! Vanguard G: Stride Gate		TV Series	2016	Yui Umemoto	TMS Entertainment
Cardfight! Vanguard G NEXT		TV Series	2016	itsuro Kawasaki	OLM, Inc.
Casshern Sins	キャシャーン Sins	TV Series	2008	Shigeyasu Yamauchi	Madhouse, Tatsunoko
The Castle Of Cagliostro	ルパン三世 カリオストロの城	Film	1979	Hayao Miyazaki	Tokyo Movie Shinsha
Chrome Shelled Regios	鋼殻のレギオス Kōkaku no Regiosu	TV Series	2009	Itsuro Kawasaki	Zexcs
Claymore	クレイモア	TV Series	2009	Hiroyuki Tanaka	Madhouse
Cutey Honey	キューティーハニー	TV Series	1973	Tomoharu Katsumata	Toei Animation
Cybuster	魔装機神サイバスター Masō Kishin Saibasutā	TV Series	1999	Hidehito Ueda	Ashi Productions
Dance In The Vampire Bund	ダンス イン ザ ヴァンパイアバンド Dansu in za Vanpaia Bando	TV Series	2010	Akiyuki Shinbo, Masahiro Sonoda	Shaft
Darker Than Black	DARKER THAN BLACK ー黒の契約者ー Dākā Zan Burakku -Kuro no Keiyakusha	TV Series	2007	Tensai Okamura	Bones
Darker Than Black: Beneath the Fully Bloomed Cherry Blossoms		OVA	2008	Tensai Okamura	Bones
Darker Than Black: Gemini of the Meteor	DARKER THAN BLACK ー流星の双子ー Dākā Zan Burakku -Ryūsei no Jemini-	TV Series	2009	Tensai Okamura	Bones
Darker Than Black: Origins	DARKER THAN BLACK 外伝 Dākā Zan Burakku Gaiden	OVA	2010	Tensai Okamura	Bones
Daughter of Twenty Faces	二十面相の娘 Niju Menso no Musume	TV Series	2008	Nobuo Tomizawa	Bones, Telecom Animation Film
Devil Hunter Yohko	魔物ハンター妖子 Mamono Hantā Yōko	OVA	1990	Katsuhisa Yamada, Hisashi Abe, Jun'ichi Sakata, Akiyuki Shinbo	Madhouse
Devilman	デビルマン Debiruman	TV Series	1972	Masayuki Akechi, Tomoharu Katsumata	Toei Animation
Devilman: The Birth		OVA	1987	Umanosuke Iida	Oh! Production
Devilman: Demon Bird Sirene		OVA	1990	Umanosuke Iida	Oh! Production
Digimon Adventure	デジタルモンスター Dejitaru Monsutā	TV Series	1999	Hiroyuki Kakudō	Toei Animation
Digimon Adventure 02	デジモンアドベンチャー02 Dejimon Adobenchā Zero Tsū	TV Series	2000	Hiroyuki Kakudō	Toei Animation
Digimon Adventure Tri.	デジモンアドベンチャーtri Dejimon Adobenchā Torai	Film Series	2015	Keitaro Motonaga	Toei Animation
Digimon Data Squad	デジモンセイバーズ Dejimon Seibāzu	TV Series	2006	Naoyuki Itou	Toei Animation
Digimon Frontier	デジモンフロンティア Dejimon Furontia	TV Series	2002	Yukio Kaizawa	Toei Animation
Digimon Fusion	デジモンクロスウォーズ Dejimon Kurosu Wōzu	TV Series	2010	Tetsuya Endo	Toei Animation
Digimon Tamers	デジモンテイマーズ Dejimon Teimāzu	TV Series	2001	Yukio Kaizawa	Toei Animation
Digimon Universe: Appli Monsters	デジモンユニバース アプリモンスターズ Dejimon Yunibāsu Apuri Monsutāzu	TV Series	2016	Gou Koga	Toei Animation
Dirty Pair	ダーティペア Dāti Pea	TV Series	1985	Norio Kashima, Toshifumi Takizawa	Nippon Sunrise
Dirty Pair 2	ダーティペア OVA Dāti Pea Orijinaru Bideo Animēshon	OVA	1987	Masayoshi Tanidabe	Sunrise
Dirty Pair: Affair of Nolandia	ダーティペアの大勝負 ノーランディアの謎 Dāti Pea no Ōshōbu: Nōrandia no Nazo	OVA	1984	Masaharu Okuwaki	Nippon Sunrise
Dirty Pair Flash	ダーティペア Flash Dāti Pea Flash	OVA	1994	Tsukasa Sunaga, Tomomi Mochizuki	Sunrise
Dirty Pair: Flight 005 Conspiracy	ダーティペア 謀略の００５便 Dāti Pea: Bōryaku no 005-bin	OVA	1990	Toshifumi Takizawa	Sunrise
Dirty Pair: Project Eden	ダーティペア Daati Pea Gekijou-ban	Film	1986	Kōichi Mashimo	Sunrise
Dominion	ドミニオン Dominion	OVA	1988	Kōichi Mashimo	Agent 21
New Dominion: Tank Police		OVA	1993	Norubu Furuse	J.C. Staff, Bandai Visual
Dragon Ball	ドラゴンボール Doragon Bōru	TV Series	1986	Minoru Okazaki, Daisuke Nishio	Toei Animation
Dragon Ball GT	ドラゴンボール GT Doragon Bōru Jī Tī	TV Series	1996	Osamu Kasai	Toei Animation
Dragon Ball Super	ドラゴンボール Doragon Bōru Sūpā	TV Series	2015	Kimitoshi Chioka, Morio Hatano	Toei Animation
Dragon Ball Z	ドラゴンボール Z Doragon Bōru Zetto	TV Series	1989	Daisuke Nishio	Toei Animation
Dragon Ball Z Kai		TV Series	2009	Yasuhiro Nowatari	Toei Animation
Fullmetal Alchemist	鋼の錬金術師 Hagane no Renkinjutsushi	TV Series	2003	Seiji Mizushima	Bones
Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood	鋼の錬金術師 Hagane no Renkinjutsushi	TV Series	2010	Yasuhiro Irie	Bones
GetBackers	ゲットバッカーズ -奪還屋 Gettobakkāzu Dakkan'ya	TV Series	2002	Kazuhiro Furuhashi, Keitaro Motonaga	Studio Deen
Gurren Lagann	Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann	TV Series	2007	Hiroyuki Imaishi	Gainax
Hajime no Ippo	はじめの一歩?, lit. "The First Step"	TV Series	2000	Satoshi Nishimura	Madhouse
Hellsing	ヘルシング Herushingu	TV Series	2004	Umanosuke Iida	Gonzo, Digimation
JoJo's Bizarre Adventure	JoJo no Kimyou na Bouken	OVA Series	1993-1994	Hiroyuki Kitakubo	A.P.P.P.
JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Adventure	JoJo no Kimyou na Bouken: Adventure	OVA Series	2000-2002	Naokatsu Tsuda
Kenichi Suzuki
David Production
JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Phantom Blood		Film	2007	Junichi Hayama	A.P.P.P.
JoJo´s Bizarre Adventure: Stardust Crusaders	JoJo no Kimyou na Bouken: Stardust Crusaiders	TV Series	2014	Naokatsu Tsuda
Kenichi Suzuki
David Production
JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Diamond Is Unbreakable	JoJo no Kimyou na Bouken: Diamond wa Kudakenai	TV Series	2016	Naokatsu Tsuda
Toshiyuki Kato
Yuuta Takamura
David Production
Naruto	NARUTO -ナルト-	TV Series	2002	Hayato Date	Pierrot
Naruto Shippuden	NARUTO -ナルト- 疾風伝 Naruto Shippūden	TV Series	2007	Hayato Date
Masa'aki Kumagai
Yasuaki Kurotsu
Pierrot
One Piece		TV Series	1999	Konosuke Uda
Junji Shimizu
Munehisa Sakai
Hiroaki Miyamoto
Toshinori Fukazawa
Toei
Soul Eater	Soul Eater ソウルイーター	TV Series	2008	Igarashi Takuya	Bones
Sword Art Online	Sōdo Āto Onrain ソードアート・オンライン	TV Series	2012	Tomohiko Ito	A-1 Pictures
Sword Art Online II	Sōdo Āto Onrain ソードアート・オンライン	TV Series	2014	Tomohiko Ito	A-1 Pictures
Trinity Blood	Toriniti Buraddo トリニティ・ブラッド	TV Series	2005	Tomohiro Hirata	Gonzo
Neon Genesis Evangelion	Neon Genesis EVANGELION 新世紀エヴァンゲリオン	TV
Series
1995	Hideaki Anno	Gainax,
Tatsunoko Production
1970–1971	The Adventures of Hutch the Honeybee		TV Series	Ippei Kuri	Tatsunoko Productions	
1975–1976	The Adventures of Pepero		TV Series	Kazuhiko Udagawa	Wako Pro	
1976	3000 Leagues in Search of Mother		TV Series	Isao Takahata	Nippon Animation	
1978–1979	The Adventures of the Little Prince		TV Series			
1980	3000 Leagues in Search of Mother		Film	Isao Takahata, Hajime Okayasu	Nippon Animation	
1982	Acrobunch		TV Series	Masakazu Yasumura	Kokusai Eigasha, TMS Entertainment	
1984–1985	Adventures of the Little Koala		TV Series		Topcraft	
1987	The Adventures of Scamper the Penguin		Film	Kinjiro Yoshida, Gennady Sokolskiy		
1989	The Adventures of Peter Pan		TV Series	Takashi Nakamura, Yoshio Kuroda	Nippon Animation	
1994–1996	801 T.T.S. Airbats		OVA Series	Yuji Moriyama	Studio Fantasia	
1997	Agent Aika		OVA Series	Katsuhiko Nishijima	Studio Fantasia	[1]
1999	Marco: 3000 Leagues in Search of Mother		Film	Kozo Kuzuha	Nippon Animation	
2004	10 Tokyo Warriors		OVA Series	Hikaru Takanashi	Zexcs	
2004–2005	Tweeny Witches		TV Series	Yoshiharu Ashino	Studio 4°C	
2007	Aika R-16: Virgin Mission		OVA Series	Katsuhiko Nishijima	Studio Fantasia	
2007	Gurren Lagann	Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann	TV Series	Hiroyuki Imaishi	Gainax	
2007	Tweeny Witches: The Adventure		OVA Series	Yoshiharu Ashino	Studio 4°C	
2012	009 RE:CYBORG		Film	Kenji Kamiyama	Production I.G, Sanzigen	
2014-present	The Seven Deadly Sins		TV Series	Tensai Okamura	A-1 Pictures
1981–1986	Urusei Yatsura	TV series	Mamoru Oshii, Kazuo Yamazaki	Studio Pierrot, Studio Deen	[1][2]
1989	Ranma 1/2	TV series	Tomomi Mochizuki, Tsutomu Shibayama	Studio Deen	[2]
1989–1992	Ranma 1/2 Nettōhen	TV series	Koji Sawai, Junji Nishimura	Studio Deen	[2]
1989–1990	Gosenzo-sama Banbanzai!	OVA series	Mamoru Oshii	Pierrot	[3]
1990	Maroko	Film	Mamoru Oshii	Pierrot	[4]
1993	Kyō Kara Ore Wa!!	OVA series	Hiroyuki Nishimori		
2000	Ghost Stories	TV series	Noriyuki Abe	Pierrot	
2002	Azumanga Daioh: The Animation	TV series	Hiroshi Nishikiori	J.C.Staff	
2003-2005	Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo	TV series	Hiroki Shibata	Toei Animation	[5]
2003-2004	Cromartie High School	TV series	Hiroaki Sakurai	Production I.G.	
2005–2007	Bludgeoning Angel Dokuro-Chan	OVA series	Tsutomu Mizushima	Hal Film Maker	
2007	Minami-ke	TV series	Masahiko Ohta	Daume	
2007	Sketchbook ~full color's~	TV series	Yoshimasa Hiraike	Hal Film Maker	
2008	Minami-ke: Okawari	TV series	Naoto Hosoda	Asread	
2009-2015	Gintama	TV series	Shinji Takamatsu,Yoichi Fujita	Sunrise	
2009–2010	Hetalia: Axis Powers	OVA series	Bob Shirohata	Studio Deen	[citation needed]
2009	Minami-ke: Betsubara	OVA	Kei Oikawa	Asread	
2009	Minami-ke: Okaeri	TV series	Kei Oikawa	Asread	
2010–2011	Baka and Test	TV series	Shin Onuma	Silver Link	
2010-2011	Mitsudomoe	TV series	Masahiko Ohta	Bridge	
2011–2012	Sket Dance	TV series	Keiichiro Kawaguchi	Tatsunoko Production	
2012	Minami-ke: Omatase	OVA	Keiichiro Kawaguchi	Feel	
2012	Acchi Kocchi	TV series	Fumitoshi Oizaki	AIC	
2013	Kotoura-san	TV series	Masahiko Ohta	AIC Classic	
2013	Minami-ke: Tadaima	TV series	Keiichiro Kawaguchi	Feel	
2013	Minami-ke: Natsuyasumi	OVA	Keiichiro Kawaguchi	Feel	
2014	D-Frag!	TV series	Seiki Sugawara	Brain's Base	[6]
2014	Engaged to the Unidentified	TV series	Yoshiyuki Fujiwara	Dogakobo	[6]
2014	Hōzuki no Reitetsu	TV series	Hiro Kaburaki	Wit Studio	[6]
2014	Inari, Konkon, Koi Iroha	TV series	Toru Takahashi	Production IMS	[6]
2014	Love, Chunibyo and Other Delusions! -Heart Throb-	TV series	Tatsuya Ishihara	Kyoto Animation	[6]
2014	Minna Atsumare! Falcom beep Gakuen	TV series	Pippuya	chara-ani, Dax Production	[6]
2014	Tonari no Seki-kun: The Master of Killing Time	TV series	Yūji Mutoh	Shin-Ei Animation	[6]
2014	Nisekoi	TV series	Naoyuki Tatsuwa, Akiyuki Shinbo	Shaft	[6]
2014	No-Rin	TV series	Shin Ōnuma	Silver Link	[6]
2014	Oneechan ga Kita	TV series	Yoshihide Yuuzumi	C2C	[6]
2014	Go! Go! 575	TV series	Takefumi Anzai	Lay-duce, C2C	[6]
2014	Pupipō!	TV series	Kaoru Suzuki	AIC Plus+	[6]
2014	Recently, My Sister Is Unusual	TV series	Hiroyuki Hata	Project No.9	[6]
2014	Robot Girls Z	TV series	Hiroshi Ikehata	Toei Animation	[6]
2014	Seitokai Yakuindomo*	TV series	Hiromitsu Kanazawa	GoHands	[6]
2014	Silver Spoon Season 2	TV series	Tomohiko Itō, Kotomi Deai	A-1 Pictures	[6]
2014	Space Dandy	TV series	Shinichirō Watanabe
Shingo Natsume	Bones	
2014	Strange+	TV series	Takashi Nishikawa	Seven	[6]
2014	SoniAni: Super Sonico The Animation	TV series	Kenichi Kawamura	White Fox	[6]
2014	Wake Up, Girls!	TV series	Yutaka Yamamoto	Ordet, Tatsunoko Production	[6]
2014	Witch Craft Works	TV series	Tsutomu Mizushima	J.C.Staff	[6]
2014	Wooser's Hand-to-Mouth Life: Awakening Arc	TV series	Toyonori Yamada	Sanzigen	[6]
2014	World Conquest Zvezda Plot	TV series	Tensai Okamura	A-1 Pictures	[6]
2014	Yo-Kai Watch	TV series	Shinji Ushiro	OLM	[6]
2015	Food Wars: Shokugeki no Soma	TV series	Yoshitomo Yonetani	J.C.Staff	
2012-2018	KonoSuba	light novel	Natsume Akatsuki	Studio Deen	
2015-2018	Mr. Osomatsu	TV series	Yoichi Fujita	Pierrot (company)
1976	3000 Leagues in Search of Mother	TV series	Isao Takahata	Nippon Animation	[1]
1980	3000 Leagues in Search of Mother	Film	Isao Takahata, Hajime Okayasu	Nippon Animation	[1]
1981	Ai no Gakko Cuore Monogatari	TV series	Eiji Okabe	Nippon Animation	[2]
1989–1990	Gosenzo-sama Banbanzai!	OVA series	Mamoru Oshii	Pierrot	[3]
1990	Maroko	Film	Mamoru Oshii	Pierrot	[4]
2000	Ah! My Goddess: The Movie	Film	Hiroaki Gōda	Anime International Company	[5]
2005	Air	Film	Osamu Dezaki	Toei Animation	[6]
2005	Aria The Animation	TV Series	Jun'ichi Satō	Hal Film Maker	[7]
2006	Aria The Natural	TV Series	Jun'ichi Satō	Hal Film Maker	[8]
2007	Clannad	Film	Osamu Dezaki	Toei Animation	[9]
2007	5 Centimeters Per Second	Film	Makoto Shinkai	CoMix Wave Inc.	[10]
2007	Aria the OVA: Arietta	OVA	Jun'ichi Satō	Hal Film Maker	[11]
2007-2008	Clannad	TV series	Tatsuya Ishihara	Kyoto Animation	[9]
2008	Clannad Another World: Tomoyo Chapter	OVA	Tatsuya Ishihara	Kyoto Animation	[9]
2008	Aria The Origination	TV series	Jun'ichi Satō	Hal Film Maker	[11]
2008	Akaneiro ni Somaru Saka	TV series	Keitaro Motonaga	TNK	[12]
2008-2009	Clannad After Story	TV series	Tatsuya Ishihara	Kyoto Animation	[9]
2009	Clannad Another World: Kyou Chapter	OVA	Tatsuya Ishihara	Kyoto Animation	[9]
2012	A Letter to Momo	Film	Hiroyuki Okiura	Production I.G	[13]
2012	009 Re:Cyborg	Film	Kenji Kamiyama	Production I.G, Sanzigen	[14]
2014	The Pilot's Love Song	TV series	Toshimasa Suzuki	TMS/3xCube	[15]
3×3 Eyes[1]
07-Ghost[2]
10 Tokyo Warriors[3]
11eyes[4]
Absolute Duo[5]
Ah My Buddha
Air[6]
Ajin: Demi-Human[7]
Akahori Gedou Hour Rabuge[8]
Akame ga Kill![9]
Akatsuki no Yona: Yona of the Dawn[10]
Akazukin Chacha[11]
Amatsuki[12]
Amon Saga[13]
The Ancient Magus' Bride
Angel Beats![14]
Angel Sanctuary[15]
Angel Tales[16]
Angelique[17]
Anohana: The Flower We Saw That Day
Anti-Magic Academy: The 35th Test Platoon[18]
Arata: The Legend
Arc the Lad[19]
Arcana
The Asterisk War
Asura Cryin'[20]
Atelier Escha & Logy: Alchemists of the Dusk Sky[21]
Attack on Titan[22][23]
Aura Battler Dunbine[24]
Ayakashi
Babel II[25]
Baccano!
Basilisk
Bastard!![26]
Beet the Vandel Buster[27]
Berserk[26]
Beyond the Boundary (Kyōkai no Kanata)[28]
Big Order[29]
Bikini Warriors[30]
Black Blood Brothers[31]
Black Butler
Black God (Kuro Kami)
Blade of the Immortal[32]
Black Rock Shooter
Bleach[33]
Blood-C[34]
Blood Reign: Curse of the Yoma
Bludgeoning Angel Dokuro-Chan[35]
Blue Blink
Blue Dragon[36]
Boogiepop Phantom[37]
Bottle Fairy (Binzume Yōsei)[38]
Busou Renkin
Cardcaptor Sakura
Cardfight!! Vanguard
Ceres, Celestial Legend
A Certain Magical Index[39] (Toaru Majutsu no Indekkusu)
Charlotte[40]
Children Who Chase Lost Voices
Chrome Shelled Regios
Clannad
Claymore[26]
Creamy Mami, the Magic Angel
D.Gray-man
D.N.Angel
Da Capo
Da Capo II
Da Capo III
Damekko Dōbutsu
Date A Live
Deltora Quest
Descendants of Darkness (Yami no Matsuei)
Detatoko Princess
Di Gi Charat
Dog Days
Dragon Ball
Dragon Ball Z
Dragon Ball Super
Dragon Crisis!
Dragon Drive
Dragon Half
Dragon Quest
Dragon Quest: Dai no Daibōken
Dragon Quest: Emblem of Roto
Dragonaut: The Resonance
Dream Eater Merry (Yumekui Merī)
Dream Hunter REM[41]
Dusk Maiden of Amnesia
Death Note
Earth Maiden Arjuna (Chikyū Shōjo Arujuna)
Eden's Bowy
El-Hazard
Elemental Gelade
Elf Princess Rane (Fairy Princess Ren)
Endride
Escaflowne
Fairy Tail
Fancy Lala (Mahō no Stage Fancy Lala)
Fate/kaleid liner Prisma Illya
Fate/stay night
Fate/Zero
Fighting Foodons
Final Fantasy: Legend of the Crystals
Final Fantasy: Unlimited
Final Fantasy VII: Last Order
Fire Emblem
Flame of Recca (Rekka no Honō)
Fruits Basket
Full Moon o Sagashite (In Search of the Full Moon)
Fullmetal Alchemist (Hagane no Renkinjutsushi)
Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood
Fushigi Yûgi (Fushigi Yûgi: The Mysterious Play)
Fushigiboshi no Futagohime (Twin Princesses of the Wonder Planet)
Futari wa Pretty Cure
Gate
Gate Keepers
Gensomaden Saiyuki
Ghost Slayers Ayashi (Tenpō Ibun Ayakashi Ayashi)
Go! Princess PreCure
Grander Musashi
Grimgar of Fantasy and Ash
Ground Defense Force! Mao-chan
Guilty Crown
Guin Saga[26]
Haibane Renmei
Hakushaku to Yōsei (Earl and Fairy)
Hans Christian Andersen's The Little Mermaid
Happiness!
HappinessCharge PreCure!
Hare Tokidoki Buta (Tokyo Pig)
HeartCatch PreCure!
Hellsing
Heroic Age
Heroic Legend of Arslan[26]
Hetalia: Axis Powers
High School DxD
Hiiro no Kakera
Hime-sama Goyōjin
Himitsu no Akko-chan
xxxHolic
Howl's Moving Castle
Hoshin Engi (Soul Hunter)
Hunter × Hunter
Hyperdimension Neptunia: The Animation (Chōjigen Geimu Neputeyūnu)
I Couldn't Become a Hero, So I Reluctantly Decided to Get a Job. (Yu-Shibu, Yūsha ni Narenakatta Ore wa Shibushibu Shūshoku o Ketsui Shimashita)
Inari, Konkon, Koi Iroha
Inuyasha
Inukami!
Inu x Boku SS (Inu x Boku Secret Service)
Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon?
Ixion Saga DT
Jing: King of Bandits
Jewelpet
JoJo's Bizarre Adventure
JoJo's Bizarre Adventure: Stardust Crusaders[42]
Junkers Come Here
Mekakucity Actors
Kagihime Monogatari Eikyū Alice Rondo
Kamichama Karin
Kamisama Kiss (Kamisama Hajimemashita)
Kekkaishi
Kemono no Sōja Erin
Kanon
Kiba
Kiki's Delivery Service (Majo no Takkyūbin)
Kirakira PreCure a la Mode
Kirby: Right Back at Ya! (Hoshi no Kirby)
Kobato.
Koi suru Tenshi Angelique
KonoSuba
Kuromajo-san ga Toru!!
Kyo Kara Maoh!
Legend of Crystania
The Legend of Snow White
Legendz
Lilpri
Little Busters!
Little Nemo: Adventures In Slumberland (1989 American & Japanese collaboration)
A Little Snow Fairy Sugar[43] (Chitchana Yukitsukai Shugā)
Living for the Day After Tomorrow (Asatte no Hōkō)
Log Horizon[44]
Loveless
Maburaho
Magi: The Labyrinth of Magic
Magi: The Kingdom of Magic
Magic Knight Rayearth[26]
Magic User's Club (Mahō Tsukai Tai!)
Magical Canan
Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha
Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha A's
Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha Strikers
Magical Meow Meow Taruto
Magical Princess Minky Momo
Magical Warfare (Mahō Sensō)
Magikano
Maho Girls PreCure!
Mahōjin Guru Guru
Makai Senki Disgaea
Mamotte! Lollipop
Mamotte Shugogetten
Maoyu
MapleStory
MAQUIA: When the Promised Flower Blooms[45] (Sayonara no Asa ni Yakusoku no Hana o Kazarō)
MÄR (Märchen Awakens Romance)
Maria the Virgin Witch
Master of Epic: The Animation Age
Maze
Megami Paradise
Mermaid Melody Pichi Pichi Pitch
Mirmo!
Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid (Kobayashi-san Chi no Maidragon)
Miyuki-chan in Wonderland
Mob Psycho 100
Moeyo Ken (Kidō Shinsengumi Moeyo Ken)
Mon Colle Knights
Monogatari (series)
Monster Musume[46]
Moribito: Guardian of the Spirit (Seirei no Moribito)
The Morose Mononokean[47]
Munto
Murder Princess
Muromi-san
Mushishi
My Bride Is a Mermaid (Seto no Hanayome)
My-HiME
My Neighbor Totoro (Tonari no Totoro)
My-Otome
Myriad Colors Phantom World
Mysterious Thief Saint Tail (Kaitō Seinto Tēru)
Naruto
Naruto Shippūden
Natsume's Book of Friends
Negima! Magister Negi Magi[48]
Neo Ranga
Night Wizard!
Nura: Rise of the Yokai Clan
Nurse Witch Komugi
No Game No Life
Noragami
Ōban Star-Racers
Oh My Goddess! (Aa! Megamisama!)
Ojamajo Doremi (Magical DoReMi)
Ojarumaru
Oku-sama wa Mahō Shōjo: Bewitched Agnes
Omishi Magical Theater: Risky Safety
One Piece
Otogi-Jūshi Akazukin
Outlaw Star
Overlord (novel series)
Pandora Hearts
Panzer World Galient
Persona 4: The Animation
Petite Princess Yucie (Puchi Puri Yucie)
Petopeto-san
Pita-Ten
Pixie Pop
Pokémon
Pom Poko (Heisei Tanuki Gassen Ponpoko)
Ponyo (Gake no Ue no Ponyo)
Popotan
Prétear (Shin Shirayuki-hime Densetsu Purītia)
Pretty Cure (Futari wa Precure)
Princess Mononoke (Mononoke-hime)
Princess Tutu
Prism Ark
Puella Magi Madoka Magica
Queen's Blade
Queen's Blade Rebellion
Rage of Bahamut: Genesis (Shingeki no Bahamut Genesis)
Ragnarok the Animation
Rakudai Kishi no Cavalry
Rakugo Tennyo Oyui
Ranma ½
Rave Master
Record of Lodoss War[26]
Renkin 3-kyū Magical? Pokān
Rental Magica
Revolutionary Girl Utena (Shoujo Kakumei Utena)
Re:Zero kara Hajimeru Isekai Seikatsu
RG Veda
Romeo × Juliet
Ronin Warriors (Yoroiden Samurai Troopers)
Rozen Maiden
Ruin Explorers (Hikyou Tanken ...)
Rune Soldier (Magical Soldier Louie)
Rosario + Vampire
Sailor Moon (Bishoujo Senshi Sailor Moon)
Saint October
Saint Tail (Kaitou Saint Tail)
Sakura Wars
Samurai Girl: Real Bout High School
Sanzoku no Musume Rōnya
Scrapped Princess[26]
Seisen Cerberus
Seraph of the End
Shakugan no Shana
Shamanic Princess
Shattered Angels (Kyōshirō to Towa no Sora)
Shigofumi: Letters from the Departed
Shin Angyo Onshi
Shining Tears X Wind
Shinkyoku Sōkai Polyphonica
Shugo Chara!
Shuffle!
Sisters of Wellber
Slayers[26]
Smile PreCure! (Smile Pretty Cure!)
Sola
Someday's Dreamers
Sorcerer Hunters[26]
Sorcerous Stabber Orphen
Soul Eater
Spice and Wolf[26]
Spirited Away (Sen to Chihiro no Kamikakushi)
Strange Dawn
Strike the Blood
Sugar Sugar Rune
Suite PreCure
Sword Art Online
Tai-Madō Gakuen 35 Shiken Shōtai
Tales from Earthsea
Tales of the Abyss
Tales of Phantasia: The Animation
Tales of Symphonia
Tales of Zestiria the X
Tatsu no ko Taro (Taro the Dragon Boy)
Tayutama: Kiss on my Deity
Tears to Tiara
Tenbatsu! Angel Rabbie (Heaven's Judgement! XX Angel Rabbie)
Tenkai Knights
The Betrayal Knows My Name (Uragiri wa Boku no Namae o Shitteiru)
The Cat Returns
The Cosmopolitan Prayers
The Devil Is a Part-Timer![23]
The Familiar of Zero (Zero no Tsukaima)
The Great Adventure of Horus, Prince of the Sun
The Good Witch of the West
The Heroic Legend of Arslan
The Irregular at Magic High School
The Law of Ueki
The Legend of the Legendary Heroes
The Mythical Detective Loki Ragnarok
The Pilot's Love Song
The Sea Prince and the Fire Child
The Seven Deadly Sins
The Severing Crime Edge
The Snow Queen
The Story of Saiunkoku (Saiunkoku Monogatari)
The Testament of Sister New Devil
The Tower of Druaga
The Twelve Kingdoms (Jūni Kokuki)
The Vision of Escaflowne[26]
The World God Only Knows
The World Is Still Beautiful (Soredemo Sekai wa Utsukushii)
Those Who Hunt Elves
Tōka Gettan
Tokyo Mew Mew
Tokyo Babylon
Tokyo Ghoul[49]
Tokyo Ravens
Trinity Seven
Tsubasa: Reservoir Chronicle
Tweeny Witches (Mahou Shoujo Tai Arusu)
Unbreakable Machine-Doll[50] (Mashin-Dōru wa Kizutsukanai)
Unico
Unlimited Fafnir
Ushio and Tora
Uta Kata
Utawarerumono[26]
Violinist of Hameln
Wedding Peach (Ai Tenshi Densetsu Wedingu Pīchi)
When Supernatural Battles Became Commonplace
Windaria
Wind: A Breath of Heart
Witch Craft Works
Witch Hunter Robin
Wizard Barristers
Wolf Children (Ōkami Kodomo no Ame to Yuki)
X/1999 (X)
Yami to Bōshi to Hon no Tabibito (Darkness, the Hat, and the Travelers of the Books, Yamibō)
Yo-Kai Watch
Yoshinaga-san Chi no Gargoyle
Yōtōden
Yumeria
Ys
Yu-Gi-Oh!
Yu-Gi-Oh! GX
Yu-Gi-Oh! 5D's
Yu-Gi-Oh! Zexal
Yu-Gi-Oh! Arc-V
Yurikuma Arashi[51]
Yu Yu Hakusho
Zatch Bell! (Konjiki no Gash Bell!!)
Zenki (Kishin Dōji Zenki)
Ajin: Demi-Human	亜人 - Ajin	Series/Manga/Movie	2016	Polygon Pictures	JA/EN
Akame ga Kill!	アカメが斬る! - Akame ga Kiru!	Series	2014	White Fox, C-Station	JA/EN
Amon: The Darkside of The Devilman	AMON デビルマン黙示録 - AMON debiruman mokushiroku	OVA	2000	Studio Live	
Another	アナザー - Anazā	Series	2012	P.A. Works	JA/EN
Attack on Titan	進撃の巨人 - Shingeki no Kyojin	Series	2013	Wit Studio, Production I.G	JA/EN
Ayakashi: Samurai Horror Tales	Ayakashi	Series	2006	Toei Animation	JA
Blue Literature Series	青い文学シリーズ - Aoi Bungaku Series	Series	2009	Madhouse	JA
Dark Myth	Ankoku Shinwa	OVA	1990		
Berserk	ベルセルク - Beruseruku	Series	1997	Oriental Light and Magic	JA
Betterman	ベターマン	Series	1999	Sunrise	JA/EN
Blue Exorcist	青の祓魔師（エクソシスト）- Ao no Ekusoshisuto	Series	2011	A-1 Pictures	JA/EN
Bio Hunter	バイオ・ハンター	OVA	1995	Madhouse	JA
Blood-C		Series	2011	Production I.G	JA/EN
Blood: The Last Vampire		Movie	2000	Production I.G	JA/EN
Blue Gender	ブルージェンダー - Burū Jendā	Series	1999	AIC	JA/EN
Blue Gender: The Warrior		Movie	2002	AIC	JA/EN
Bokurano: Ours	ぼくらの - Bokura no	Series	2007	Gonzo	
Boogiepop Phantom	ブギーポップは笑わない Boogiepop Phantom	Series	2000	Madhouse	JA/EN
Bride of Deimos	悪魔の花嫁 - Deimosu no Hanayome	OVA	1988	Madhouse	JA
Brynhildr in the Darkness[1]		Series	2014	Arms Corporation	
Curse of Kazuo Umezu	Umezu Kazuo no Noroi	OVA			JA/EN
Corpse Party: Missing Footage		OVA	2012		
Corpse Party: Tortured Souls	Bougyakusareta Tamashii no Jukyou	OVA	2013		
Dark Cat		OVA	1991		JA/EN
Deadman Wonderland	デッドマンワンダーランド - Deddoman Wandārando	Series	2011	Manglobe	JA/EN
Demon City Shinjuku	魔界都市 (新宿) - Makai Toshi: Shinjuku	Movie	1988	Madhouse	JA/EN
Demon Lord Dante		Series	2002	Magic Bus	JA/EN
Demon Prince Enma		OVA	2006	Bandai Visual, Brain's Base	JA/EN
Devil May Cry		Series	2007	Madhouse	JA/EN
Digital Devil Story: Megami Tensei		OVA			JA/EN
Doomed Megalopolis	帝都物語 - Teitō Monogatari	OVA	1991	Madhouse	JA/EN
Elfen Lied	エルフェンリート - Erufen Rīto	Series	2004	Arms Corporation	JA
Gantz	ガンツ - Gantsu	Series	2004	Gonzo	JA
Highschool of the Dead	学園黙示録 - Gakuen Mokushiroku Haisukūru obu za Deddo	Series	2010	Madhouse	JA/EN
Gregory Horror Show		Series	1999	TV Asahi	
Galerians: Rion		Movie	2002	Enterbrain, Polygon Magic	JA/EN
Ga-Rei		Series	2008	AIC Spirits, Asread	JA
Genocyber		OVA	1994	Artmic	JA/EN
Ghost Hound		Series	2007	Production I.G	JA/EN
Ghost Hunt		Series	2006	J.C. Staff	JA/EN
Hakaba Kitaro (GeGeGe no Kitaro)		Series	1968	Toei Animation	JA
Hell Girl	Jigoku Shoujo	Series	2005	Studio Deen	JA/EN
Hellsing		Series	2001	Gonzo	JA/EN
Hellsing Ultimate		OVA	2006	Satelight, Madhouse, Graphnica, Kelmadick	JA/EN
Hell Target		Movie	1987		JA
Higurashi When They Cry	ひぐらしのなく頃に - Higurashi no Naku Koro ni	Series	2006	Studio Deen	JA
Interlude		OVA	2003	Toei Animation	JA/EN
Jigokudou Reikai Tsuushin		OVA	1996		JA
Judge		OVA	1991	J.C. Staff	JA/EN
Kakurenbo: Hide & Seek		OVA	2005	Shuhei Morita	JA/EN
Kimera		OVA	1996	Toho	JA
King of Thorn		Movie	2010	Sunrise	JA/EN
Kurozuka (novel)		Series	2008	Madhouse	JA
The Laughing Salesman	笑ゥせぇるすまん - Warau Seerusuman	Series	1989	Shin-Ei Animation	JA
Laughing Target		OVA	1987	Studio Pierrot, Shogakukan Production	JA/EN
Le Portrait de Petit Cossette	コゼットの肖像 (Kozetto no Shōzō)	OVA	2004	Daume	JA
Lily C.A.T.		OVA	1987	Studio Pierrot	JA
Malice@Doll		OVA	2001	GAGA Communications	JA
Mermaid's Forest		OVA	1991	Studio Pierrot, Victor Entertainment	JA
Mermaid's Scar		OVA	1993	Madhouse	JA
Mermaid's Forest		Series	2003	TMS Entertainment	JA
Mononoke		Series	2007	Toei Animation	JA/EN
Monster of Frankenstein	Kyoufu Densetsu Kaiki! Frankenstein	TV Movie	1981	Toei Animation	JA
Mōryō no Hako		Series	2008	Madhouse	JA
Night Head Genesis		Series	2006	Foursome Co., Ltd.	JA/EN
Ogre Slayer	鬼切丸 - Onikirimaru	OVA	1994	OB Planning	JA
Ookami Kakushi		Series	2010	AIC	JA
Ousama Game		series	2011	BS-TBS CBS	JA
Parasyte: The Maxim	寄生獣 セイの格率 - Kiseijū Sei No Kakuritsu	Series	2014	Madhouse	JA
Pet Shop of Horrors		OVA	1999	Madhouse	JA/EN
Pupa		Series	2014	Studio Deen	JA
Puppet Princess		OVA	2000		JA/EN
Requiem from the Darkness		Series	2003	Tokyo Movie Shinsha	JA/EN
Roots Search		OVA	1986		JA
Shadow Star Narutaru	なるたる (骸なる星2003 珠たる子) - Narutaru (Mukuro Naru Hoshi Tama Taru Ko)	Series	2003	Planet	JA
Shiki		TV	2010	Daume	JA/EN
Shin Megami Tensei: Tokyo Mokushiroku		Movie	1995		JA/EN
SoulTaker		TV	2001	Tatsunoko Production	JA/EN
Terra Formars		Series	2014	Linden Films	JA
Terra Formars: Revenge		Series	2016	Linden Films, TYO Animations	JA
Thriller Restaurant		TV	2009	Toei Animation	JA
Tokko		Series	2006	AIC Spirits, Group TAC	JA
Tokyo Ghoul		Series	2014	Studio Pierrot	JA/EN
Tokyo Majin	東京魔人學園剣風帖 龖 - Tokyo Majin Gakuen Kenpuchō: Tō	Series	2007	Animax	JA
Tokyo Majin: 2nd Act		Series	2007	Animax	JA
Twilight of the Dark Master		Movie	1998	Madhouse	JA/EN
Violence Jack: Harem Bomber		OVA	1986	Soei Shinsha, Ashi Production	JA/EN
Violence Jack: Evil Town		OVA	1988	Soei Shinsha, Japan Home Video, Studio88, D.A.S.T.	
Violence Jack: Hell's Wind Hen		OVA	1990	Soei Shinsha, Japan Home Video, Studio88	
Wasurenagumo		TV Special	2011		JA
Wicked City		Movie	1987		JA/EN
Yondemasuyo, Azazel-san		OVA	2010	Production I.G	JA
Yondemasuyo, Azazel-san		Series	2011	Production I.G	JA
Yondemasuyo, Azazel-san Z		Series	2013	Production I.G	JA
Zombie-Loan		Series	2007	Xebec M2	JA
1	Appleseed
2	Aquarion
3	Gunparade March
4	Maze the Megaburst Space
5	Mashin Hero Wataru
6	Symphogear
7	Blue Gender
8	Mobile Suit Gundam
9	Brave series
10	Neon Genesis Evangelion
11	Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion
12	Robotech
13	Bubblegum Crisis
14	Steel Jeeg
15	Cyborg 009
16	Getter Robo
17	Ghost in the Shell
18	Macross
19	Mazinger
20	Patlabor
21	Sakura Wars
22	The Vision of Escaflowne
23	Votoms
24	Zoids
25	Zone of the Enders
Astro Boy (1963)
Tetsujin 28-go (1963–66)
Astroganger (1972–73)
Brave Raideen (1975–76)
UFO Warrior Dai Apolon (1976–77)
Blocker Gundan 4 Machine Blaster (1976–77)
Chōdenji Robo Combattler V (1976–77)
Gowappa 5 Gōdam (1976)
Divine Demon-Dragon Gaiking (1976–77)
Magne Robo Gakeen (1976–77)
Planetary Robot Danguard Ace (1977–78)
Chōdenji Machine Voltes V (1977–78)
Chōjin Sentai Barattack (1977–78)
Invincible Super Man Zambot 3 (1977–78)
Tōshō Daimos (1978-9)
Space Runaway Ideon (1980–81)
The New Adventures of Gigantor (1980–81)
Beast King GoLion (1981-1982)
Fang of the Sun Dougram (1981–83)
Six God Combination Godmars (1981–82)
Once Upon a Time... Space (1982)
Armored Fleet Dairugger XV (1982-1983)
Fight! Iczer One (1983–87)
Aura Battler Dunbine (1983–84)
Genesis Climber MOSPEADA (1983–84)
Ginga Hyōryū Vifam (1983–84)
Special Armored Battalion Dorvack (1983–84)
Super Dimension Century Orguss (1983–84)
Zeorymer (1983–84)
Chō Kōsoku Galvion (1984)
Giant Gorg (1984)
Heavy Metal L-Gaim (1984–85)
Panzer World Galient (1984–85)
Super Dimension Cavalry Southern Cross (1984)
Voltron (1984–85)
Blue Comet SPT Layzner (1985–86)
Megazone 23 (1985)
Gall Force (1986)
MD Geist (1986)
Project A-ko (1986)
O-parts: Oman (1987 Short Lolicon)
Black Magic M-66 (1987)
Metal Armor Dragonar (1987–88)
Metal Skin Panic MADOX-01 (1987)
Dominion Tank Police (1988–89)
Gunbuster (1988)
Starship Troopers (OVA) (1988)
Five Star Stories (1989)
Sol Bianca (1990–91)
Detonator Orgun (1991–93)
Matchless Raijin-Oh (1991–92)
Roujin Z (1991)
Babel II (1992)
Tekkaman Blade (1992–93)
Kishin Corps (1993–94)
Moldiver (1993)
Magic Knight Rayearth (1994–95)
Armitage III (1995)
Galaxy Fräulein Yuna (1995)
Raideen the Superior (1996)
Martian Successor Nadesico (1996–97)
Brain Powerd (1998)
Gasaraki (1998–99)
The Big O (1999–00; 2003)
Cybuster (1999)
Dai-Guard (1999–00)
Dual! Parallel Trouble Adventure (1999)
Gundress (1999)
Candidate for Goddess (2000)
Vandread (2000)
Great Dangaioh (2001)
Zaion: I Wish You Were Here (2001)
Full Metal Panic (2002)
Gravion (2002)
RahXephon (2002)
Voices of a Distant Star (2002)
Godannar (2003–04)
Gunparade March (2003)
Immortal Grand Prix (2003)
Burst Angel (2004)
Diebuster (2004–06)
Fafner in the Azure (2004)
Eureka 7 (2005–06)
Gun X Sword (2005)
Guyver: The Bioboosted Armor (2005–06)
BALDR FORCE EXE Resolution (2006)
Flag (anime) (2006–07)
Zegapain (2006)
Reideen (2007)
Broken Blade (2007)
Engage Planet Kiss Dum (2007)
Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann (2007)
Heroic Age (anime) (2007)
Kishin Taisen Gigantic Formula (2007)
Linebarrels of Iron (2008–09)
Asura Cryin' (2009)
The Girl Who Leapt Through Space (2009)
Rideback (2009)
Viper's Creed (2009)
Guilty Crown (2011–12)
Lagrange: The Flower of Rin-ne (2012)
Muv Luv Alternative Total Eclipse (2012)
Robotics;Notes (2012–13)
Gargantia on the Verdurous Planet (2013–present)
Ginga Kikoutai Majestic Prince (2013)
Aldnoah.Zero (2014–15)
Cross Ange (2014–15)
Kenzen Robo Daimidaler (2014)
Knights of Sidonia (2014–15)
M3 the dark metal (2014)
Comet Lucifer (2015)
Kuromukuro (2016)
Darling in the Franxx (2018)
Ajin: Demi-Human
Another
Blood+
Blood-C
Boogiepop Phantom
Case Closed series
Darker than Black
Death Note
Death Parade
Eden of the East
Erased[1]
Ergo Proxy
Glass Maiden
Ghost Hunt
Haruchika[2]
Heaven's Memo Pad
Hell Girl series
Hyōka[4]
Karakurizōshi Ayatsuri Sakon
Kindaichi Case Files series
Mokke
Mōryō no Hako
Mysterious Joker
Paranoia Agent
Psycho-Pass
Rampo Kitan: Game of Laplace
Red Garden
Trinity 7
Tantei Opera Milky Holmes series
Terror in Resonance
Tantei Gakuen Q
Umineko: When They Cry
Yu Yu Hakusho
1001 Nights	Senya Ichiya Monogatari	Movie	1969	JA
5 Centimeters per Second	Byōsoku Go Senchimētoru	Movie	2007	JA/EN
9 Love Stories	Ai Monogatari: 9 Love Stories	OVA	1993	JA
A Bridge to the Starry Skies	Hoshizora e Kakaru Hashi	TV	2011	JA
A Dark Rabbit Has Seven Lives	Itsuka Tenma no Kuro Usagi	TV	2011	JA
A Town Where You Live	Kimi no Iru Machi	TV	2013	JA
Adventures of the Little Mermaid	Ningyo Hime Marina no Bouken	TV	1991	JA
Aesthetica of a Rogue Hero	Hagure Yūsha no Esutetika	TV	2012	JA/EN
Air		TV	2005	JA/EN
Aishiteruze Baby	Aishiteruze Beibe	TV	2004	JA
Ai Yori Aoshi		TV	2002	JA/EN
Ai Yori Aoshi Enishi		TV	2003	JA/EN
Akane Maniax	Kimi ga Nozomu Eien Gaiden	OVA	2004	JA
Amagami SS		TV	2010	JA
Amagami SS+		TV	2012	JA
Andersen's Children's Story: The Mermaid Princess	Andersen Douwa - Ningyo Hime	Movie	1975	JA
Angel Tales	Tenshi no Shippo	TV	2001	JA
Ano Ko ni 1000%		OVA	1989	JA
Aquarian Age: Sign for Evolution		TV	2002	JA
Aquarion Evol		TV	2012	JA/EN
Arakawa Under the Bridge		TV	2010	JA
Aria the Scarlet Ammo	Hidan no Aria	TV	2011	JA/EN
Ashita no Nadja		TV	2003	JA
Ask Dr. Rin!		TV	2001	JA
Azuki-chan		TV	1995	JA
Belladonna of Sadness	Kanashimi no Belladonna	Movie	1973	JA
Beloved Angel Angelique	Koi suru Tenshi Angelique	TV	2006	JA
Beyond the Boundary	Kyoukai no Kanata	TV	2013	JA
Blue Spring Ride	Ao Haru Ride	TV	2014	JA
Bobby's In Deep		Movie	1985	JA/EN
Boys Be		TV	2000	JA/EN
Boys Over Flowers	Hana Yori Dango	TV	1996	JA/EN
Brighter Than the Dawning Blue	Yoake Mae Yori Ruri Iro Na -Crescent Love-	TV	2006	JA
Brothers Conflict		TV	2013	JA/EN
Bronze: Zetsuai Since 1989		OVA	1996	JA
Candy Candy		TV	1976	JA
Cardcaptor Sakura	Kādokyaputā Sakura	TV	1998	JA/EN
Ceres: Celestial Legend	Ayashi no Ceres	TV	2000	JA/EN
Charlotte (anime)	Charlotte	TV	2015	JA/EN
Chibi Vampire	Karin	TV	2005	JA/EN
Chobits		TV	2002	JA/EN
Clannad		TV	2007	JA/EN
Da Capo		TV	2003	JA/EN
Dance in the Vampire Bund	Dansu in za Vanpaia Bando	TV	2010	JA/EN
Dance With Devils		TV	2015	JA
Darling in the Franxx		TV	2018	JA
Date A Live		TV	2013	JA/EN
Diabolik Lovers	Diaborikku Ravāzu	TV	2013	JA
D.N.Angel	Dī Enu Enjeru	TV	2003	JA/AN
DNA²		TV	1994	JA/AN
Eden of the East		TV	2009	JA/EN
Ef - a tale of memories		TV	2007	JA/EN
Elfen Lied	Erufen Rīto	TV	2004	JA/EN
Engaged to the Unidentified	Mikakunin de Shinkōkei	TV	2014	JA
Eureka Seven		TV	2005	JA/EN
Fate/stay night		TV	2006	JA/EN
Fortune Arterial	Fortune Arterial: Akai Yakusaku	TV	2010	JA
From Me To You	Kimi Ni Todoke	TV	2009	JA
Fruits Basket	Furūtsu Basuketto	TV	2001	JA/EN
Full Metal Panic!	Furumetaru Panikku	TV	2002	JA/EN
Full Metal Panic? Fumoffu	Furumetaru Panikku? Fumoffu	TV	2003	JA/EN
Full Moon wo Sagashite		TV	2002	JA/EN
Fushigi Yugi: The Mysterious Play		TV	1995	JA/EN
Future Diary	Mirai Nikki	TV	2011	JA/EN
Glasslip		TV	2014	JA
Gakuen Alice (Alice Academy or Alice School)	Gakuen Arisu	TV	2005	JA/EN
Ginban Kaleidoscope	Ginban Kareidosukōpu	TV	2005	JA/EN
Glasslip		TV	2014	JA
Golden Time		TV	2013	JA
Gosick		TV	2011	JA
Guilty Crown		TV	2011	JA/EN
He Is My Master	Kore ga Watashi no Goshujin-sama	TV	2005	JA
Here is Greenwood		OVA	1991	JA/EN
His and Her Circumstances	Kare Kano	TV	1998	JA/EN
Honey and Clover		TV	2005	JA
Horizon in the Middle of Nowhere		TV	2011	JA/EN
H2O: Footprints in the Sand		TV	2008	JA
I My Me! Strawberry Eggs		TV	2001	JA/EN
Ichigo 100%		TV	2005	JA
If Her Flag Breaks	Kanojo ga Flag wo Oraretara	TV	2014	JA
If I See You in My Dreams		TV	1998	JA/EN
Inuyasha		TV	1996	JA/EN
Inu x Boku SS		TV	2012	JA/EN
Is this a zombie?	Kore wa zombie desu ka?	TV	2011	JA
Kamisama Kiss	Kamisama Hajimemashita	TV	2012	JA/EN
Kanokon: The Girl Who Cried Fox	Kanokon	TV	2008	JA/EN
Kanon	Kanon	TV	2006	JA/EN
Kids on the Slope	Sakamichi no Apollon	TV	2012	JA/EN
Kimi ni Todoke: From Me to You	Kimi ni Todoke	TV	2009	JA/EN
Kimikiss: Pure Rouge	KimiKisu	TV	2007	JA
Kirarin Revolution	Kirarin Reboryūshon	TV	2004	JA
Kodomo no Omocha (Child's Toy),	Kodocha	TV	1996	JA/EN
Kokoro Connect		TV	2012	JA/EN
Kotoura-san		TV	2013	JA
Love, Chunibyo & Other Delusions	Chūnibyō demo Koi ga Shitai!	TV	2012	JA/EN
Lovely Complex	Love*Com	TV	2007	JA
Love Hina	Rabu Hina	TV	2000	JA/EN
Magic-Kyun! Renaissance		TV	2016	JA
Maiden Spirit Zakuro	Otome Yōkai Zakuro	TV	2010	JA
Maburaho	Maburaho	TV	2000	JA/EN
Maison Ikkoku	Mezon Ikkoku	TV	1986	JA
Marmalade Boy	Mamarēdo Bōi	TV	1994	JA/EN
Mashiroiro Symphony	Mashiroiro Symphony: Love is pure white	TV	2011	JA
Mermaid Melody Pichi Pichi Pitch	Māmeido Merodī Pichi Pichi Pitchi	TV	2004	JA
My Guardian Characters	Shugo Chara!	TV	2007	JA/EN
My Little Monster	Tonari no Kaibutsu-kun	TV	2008	JA
My Little Sister Can't Be This Cute!	Ore no Imōto ga Konna ni Kawaii Wake ga Nai (OreImo)	TV	2010	JA
My Love Story!!	Ore Monogatari!!	TV	2015	JA
Myself ; Yourself		TV	2007	JA
Mysterious Girlfriend X	Nazo no Kanojo X	TV	2012	JA/EN
Nakaimo - My Sister Is Among Them!	Kono Naka ni Hitori, Imouto ga Iru!	TV	2012	JA/EN
Nana	nana	TV	2006	JA/EN
Neighborhood Story	Gokinjo Monogatari	TV	1995	JA
Omamori Himari	Omamori Himari	TV	2010	JA
One Week Friends	Isshukan Friends	TV	2014	JA
Ouran High School Host Club	Oran Koko Hosuto Kurabu	TV	2006	JA/EN
Paradise Kiss	Paradaisu Kisu	TV	2005	JA/EN
Peach Girl	Pīchi Gāru	TV	2005	JA/EN
Place to Place	Acchi Kocchi	TV	2012	JA
Plastic Memories		TV	2015	JA/EN
Playful Kiss	Itazura na Kiss	TV	1996	JA/EN
Please Teacher	Onegai Teacher	TV	2002	JA/EN
Prétear	Shin Shirayuki-hime Densetsu Purītia	TV	2001	
Princess Jellyfish	Kuragehime	TV	2010	
Ranma 1/2		TV	1989	JA
Red Data Girl	Ārudījī Reddo Dēta Gāru	TV	2013	JA/EN
Riddle Story of Devil[1]	Akuma no Ridoru	TV	2014	
Rosario + Vampire	Rozario to Banpaia	TV	2008	JA/EN
Samurai Harem: Asu noYoichi		TV	2009	JA
Sankarea		TV	2012	JA
Say "I love you"	Sukitte Iinayo	TV	2012	JA/EN
School Days (visual novel)		TV	2007	JA
School Rumble	Sukūru Ranburu	TV	2004	JA/EN
The World's Greatest First Love	Sekai-Ichi Hatsukoi	TV	2011	JA
Shakugan No Shana		TV	2005	JA/EN
Shuffle!	Shaffuru!	TV	2005	JA/EN
Skip Beat!	Sukippu Bīto!	TV	2011	JA/EN
Sugar Sugar Rune	Shuga Shuga Rūn	TV	2005	JA
Sky With A Rising Half-Moon	Hanbun No Tsuki Ga Noboru Sora	TV	2006	JA
Snow White with the Red Hair	Akagami no Shirayukihime	TV	2015	JA/EN
Song Of The Prince	Uta no prince sama	TV	2011	JA
Special A / S · A: Special A	S·A Supesharu Ē	TV	2008	JA/EN
Spice and Wolf	Imagin	TV	2008	JA/EN
Suzuka		TV	2005	JA/EN
Sword Art Online		TV	2012	JA/EN
The Last: Naruto The Movie	Naruto	Movie	2014	JA/EN
The Pet Girl of Sakurasou	Sakurasou no Pet na Kanojo	TV	2012	JA
The President is a Maid!	Kaichou wa Maid-sama!	TV	2010	JA
The Wallflower	Yamato Nadeshiko Shichi Henge	TV	2006	JA/EN
The World God Only Knows	Kami nomi zo Shiru Sekai	TV	2010	JA/EN
The World God Only Knows II	Kami nomi zo Shiru Sekai 2	TV	2011	JA/EN
To Love-Ru	To Love-Ru	TV/OVA	2008	JA
Tokyo Mew Mew	Tōkyō Myū Myū	TV	2002	JA/EN
Toradora!		TV	2008	JA/EN
UFO Baby	Dā! Dā! Dā!	TV	2002	JA
Ultra Maniac	Urutora Maniakku	TV	2003	JA/EN
Vampire Knight		TV	2008	JA/EN
Waiting in the Summer	Ano Natsu de Matteru	TV	2012	JA
We were there	Bokura ga Ita	TV	2006	JA
Witch Craft Works		TV	2014	JA
Wolf Girl and Black Prince	Ōkami Shōjo to Kuro Ōji	TV	2014	JA
Yamada-kun and the Seven Witches	Yamada-kun to 7-nin no majo	TV	2013	JA/EN
Yona Of The Dawn	Akatsuki no Yona	TV	2014	JA
Your Lie in April[2]	Shigatsu wa Kimi no Uso	TV	2014	JA/EN
1963-1966	Astro Boy	TV series	Osamu Tezuka	Mushi Productions	
1963–1964	8 Man	TV series	Haruyuki Kawajima	Eiken, TCJ Animation Center	[1]
1964–1965	Big X	TV series	N/A	TMS Entertainment	[citation needed]
1965–1966	The Amazing 3	TV series	Taku Sugiyama	Mushi Productions	[2]
1980	Be Forever Yamato	Film	Leiji Matsumoto, Toshio Masuda	N/A	[citation needed]
1980-1981	Astro Boy	TV Series	Noburo Ishiguro	Tezuka Production	
1981–1986	Urusei Yatsura	TV series	Mamoru Oshii, Kazuo Yamazaki	Pierrot, Studio Deen	[3][4]
1982	Andromeda Stories	TV film	Masamitsu Sasaki	Toei Animation	[5]
1982	Arcadia of My Youth	Film	Tomoharu Katsumata	N/A	[6]
1982–1983	Arcadia of My Youth: Endless Orbit SSX	TV series	Tomoharu Katsumata	Toei Animation	[7]
1984	Bagi, the Monster of Mighty Nature	TV film	Osamu Tezuka	Tezuka Productions	[citation needed]
1984	Birth	OVA film	Shinya Sadamitsu	Idol, Kaname Production	[citation needed]
1986	Ai City	Film	Kōichi Mashimo	Toho, Movic, Ashi Productions	[8]
1986	Roots Search	OVA film	Hisashi Sugai	N/A	[9]
1987	2001 Nights	OVA film	Yoshio Takeuchi	TMS Entertainment	[10]
1987	Digital Devil Story: Megami Tensei	OVA film	Mizuho Nishikubo	N/A	[11]
1988	Akira	Film	Katsuhiro Otomo	Tokyo Movie Shinsha	[12]
1988	Appleseed	OVA film	Kazuyoshi Katayama	Gainax	[13]
1989	Baoh	OVA film	Hiroyuki Yokoyama	Studio Pierrot	[citation needed]
1989	The Enemy's the Pirates!	OVA series	N/A	Madhouse, I.G Tatsunoko, Watanabe Promotion	[14]
1989–1990	Gosenzo-sama Banbanzai!	OVA series	Mamoru Oshii	Pierrot	[15]
1990	Maroko	Film	Mamoru Oshii	Pierrot	[16]
1991	Armored Police Metal Jack	TV series	Hiroshi Matsuzono	Sunrise	[17]
1991	Future GPX Cyber Formula	TV series	Mitsuo Fukuda	Sunrise	[citation needed]
1992–1994	Ai no Kusabi	OVA series	Akira Nishimori, Katsuhito Akiyama	AIC	[citation needed]
1993	8 Man After	OVA series	N/A	J.C.Staff	[18]
1993	Big Wars	Film	Issei Kume, Toshifumi Takizawa	Magic Bus	[citation needed]
1995	Bio Hunter	OVA film	Yuzo Sato	Madhouse	[citation needed]
1996	Apocalypse Zero	OVA series	Toshihiro Hirano	Ashi Productions	[citation needed]
1996	B't X	TV series	Mamoru Hamatsu	TMS Entertainment	[citation needed]
1996	Birdy the Mighty	OVA series	Yoshiaki Kawajiri	Madhouse	[citation needed]
1997	Agent Aika	OVA series	Katsuhiko Nishijima	Studio Fantasia	[citation needed]
1997	B't X Neo	TV series	Mamoru Hamatsu	TMS Entertainment	[citation needed]
1997–1998	Battle Athletes	OVA series	Kazuhiro Ozawa	AIC	[citation needed]
1997–1998	Battle Athletes Victory	TV series	Katsuhito Akiyama	AIC	[citation needed]
1998	All Purpose Cultural Cat-Girl Nuku Nuku DASH!	OVA series	Yoshitaka Fujimoto	MOVIC, Starchild Records	[citation needed]
1998	Cowboy Bebop	TV series	Shinichirō Watanabe	Sunrise	[citation needed]
1998	Yokohama Kaidashi Kikō	OVA series	Takashi Anno	Ajia-do Animation Works	[citation needed]
1999–2000	Amazing Nurse Nanako	OVA series	Hiroshi Negishi	Radix, Genco	[citation needed]
1999–2000	Infinite Ryvius	TV series	Gorō Taniguchi	Sunrise	[citation needed]
1999	Seihō Tenshi Angel Links	TV series	Yuji Yamaguchi	Sunrise, Bandai Visual	[19]
1999	Arc the Lad	TV series	Itsuro Kawasaki	Bee Train	[citation needed]
2000	A.LI.CE	Film	Kenichi Maejima	N/A	[20]
2000	Banner of the Stars	TV series	Yasuchika Nagaoka	Sunrise	[citation needed]
2001–2002	Alien Nine	OVA series	Jiro Fujimoto, Yasuhiro Irie	J.C.Staff	[citation needed]
2001	Angelic Layer	TV series	Hiroshi Nishikiori	Bones	[citation needed]
2001	Banner of the Stars II	TV series	Yasuchika Nagaoka	Sunrise	[citation needed]
2002	6 Angels	Film	Makoto Kobayashi	N/A	[citation needed]
2003–2004	Astro Boy	TV series	Kazuya Konaka	Tezuka Productions, Sony Pictures Television	[citation needed]
2003	Avenger	TV series	Koichi Mashimo	Bee Train, Xebec	[citation needed]
2003	Narue no Sekai	TV series	Hiromitsu Morita	Studio Live	[citation needed]
2004	Azusa, Otetsudai Shimasu!	TV film	Hajime Kamegaki	TMS	[citation needed]
2005	Absolute Boy	TV series	Tomomi Mochizuki	Ajia-do Animation Works, Bandai Visual	[citation needed]
2005	Aria the Animation	TV series	Jun'ichi Satō	Hal Film Maker	[citation needed]
2005	Astro Boy: Mighty Atom - Visitor of 100,000 Light Years, IGZA	Film	Naoko Takeuchi	Tezuka Productions	[21]
2001	Banner of the Stars III	OVA series	Yasuchika Nagaoka	Sunrise	[citation needed]
2006	009-1	TV series	Naoyuki Konno	Ishimori Entertainment	[citation needed]
2006	Aria the Natural	TV series	Jun'ichi Satō	Hal Film Maker	[citation needed]
2007	Aika R-16: Virgin Mission	OVA series	Katsuhiko Nishijima	Studio Fantasia	[citation needed]
2007	Aria the OVA: Arietta	OVA film	Jun'ichi Satō	Hal Film Maker	[citation needed]
2008	Amuri in Star Ocean	OVA series	Yoshitomo Yonetani	Studio Hibari CG Team	[citation needed]
2008	Aria the Origination	TV series	Jun'ichi Satō	Hal Film Maker	[citation needed]
2008	Tetsuwan Birdy: Decode	TV series	Kazuki Akane	A-1 Pictures	[citation needed]
2008	Blassreiter	TV series	Ichiro Itano	Gonzo	[citation needed]
2009	TO	OVA series	Fumihiko Sori	Avex	[citation needed]
2009	Basquash!	TV series	Shin Itagaki, Eiichi Sato	Satelight	[citation needed]
2009	Tetsuwan Birdy: Decode Season 2	TV series	Kazuki Akane	A-1 Pictures	[citation needed]
2010	Cat Planet Cuties	TV series	Youichi Ueda	AIC PLUS+	[citation needed]
2011–2012	Appleseed XIII	ONA series	Takayuki Hamana	Production I.G	[citation needed]
2011	Appleseed XIII: Tartaros	Film	Takayuki Hamana	Production I.G	[citation needed]
2011	Appleseed XIII: Ouranos	Film	Takayuki Hamana	Production I.G	[citation needed]
2011	Steins;Gate	Visual novel/TV series	Hiroshi Hamasaki
Takuya Sato	White Fox	[citation needed]
2012	009 RE:CYBORG	Film	Kenji Kamiyama	Production I.G, Sanzigen	[citation needed]
2012	AKB0048	TV series	Shōji Kawamori, Yoshimasa Hiraike	Satelight	[citation needed]
2012	Ai no Kusabi 2012	OVA series	Katsuhito Akiyama	AIC	[citation needed]
2012	AKB0048 next stage	TV series	Shōji Kawamori, Yoshimasa Hiraike	Satelight	[citation needed]
2013	Arpeggio of Blue Steel	TV series	Seiji Kishi	Sanzigen	[22]
2013	Aruvu Rezuru: Kikaijikake no Yōseitachi	Film	Tatsuya Yoshihara	Zexcs	[citation needed]
2013	Coppelion	TV series	Shingo Suzuki	GoHands	[23]
2013	Double Circle	ONA series	N/A	N/A	[24]
2013	Gatchaman Crowds	TV series	Kenji Nakamura	Tatsunoko Production	[citation needed]
2013	Valvrave the Liberator	TV series	Kō Matsuo	Sunrise	[citation needed]
2014	Aldnoah.Zero	TV series	Ei Aoki	A-1 Pictures, TROYCA	[25]
2014	Black Bullet	TV series	Masayuki Kojima	Kinema Citrus, Orange	[26]
2014	Brynhildr in the Darkness	TV series	Kenichi Imaizumi	Arms	[26]
2014	Buddy Complex	TV series	Yasuhiro Tanabe	Sunrise	[24]
2014	Captain Earth	TV series	Takuya Igarashi	Bones	[26]
2014	DRAMAtical Murder	TV series	Kazuya Miura	NAZ	[25]
2014	Expelled from Paradise	Film	Seiji Mizushima	Toei Animation	[27]
2014	Hamatora: The Animation	TV series	Seiji Kishi, Hiroshi Kimura	NAZ	[24]
2014	Knights of Sidonia	TV series	Kōbun Shizuno	Polygon Pictures	[26]
2014	M3 the dark metal	TV series	Junichi Sato	Satelight, C2C	[26]
2014	Mekakucity Actors	TV series	Yūki Yase, Akiyuki Shinbo	Shaft	[26]
2014	Nobunaga the Fool	TV series	Eiichi Sato	Satelight	[24]
2014	Nobunagun	TV series	Nobuhiro Kondo	Bridge	[24]
2014	Persona 4: The Golden Animation	TV series	Seiji Kishi, Tomohisa Taguchi	A-1 Pictures	[25]
2014	Selector Infected WIXOSS	TV series	Takuya Satō	J.C.Staff	[26]
2014	Space Dandy	TV series	Shingo Natsume, Shinichirō Watanabe	Bones	[24][25]
2014	Sword Art Online II	TV series	Tomohiko Ito	A-1 Pictures	[25]
2014	Tokyo ESP	TV series	Shigehito Takayanagi	Xebec	[25]
2014	Wooser's Hand-to-Mouth Life: Awakening Arc	TV series	Toyonori Yamada	Sanzigen	[24]
2014	Z/X Ignition	TV series	Yuji Yamaguchi	Telecom Animation Film	[24]
2015	Gatchaman Crowds insight	TV series	Kenji Nakamura	Tatsunoko Production	[citation needed]
1985–1987	High School! Kimengumi	TV series	Hiroshi Fukutomi	Gallop, Studio Comet	[1]
1998	Yokohama Kaidashi Kikō	OVA series	Takashi Annō	Ajia-do Animation Works	[2]
2002	Shrine of the Morning Mist	TV Series	Yuji Moriyama	Chaos Project Gansis	[3]
2002	Azumanga Daioh	TV series	Hiroshi Nishikiori	J.C.Staff	[4]
2002–2003	Quiet Country Cafe	OVA series	Tomomi Mochizuki	Ajia-do Animation Works, SME Visual Works	[5]
2005	Aria	TV series	Junichi Sato	Hal Film Maker	[6]
2005	Strawberry Marshmallow	TV series	Takuya Sato	Daume	[6]
2006	Bartender	TV series	Masaki Watanabe	Palm Studio	[7]
2007	Lucky Star	TV series	Yutaka Yamamoto, Yasuhiro Takemoto	Kyoto Animation	[6]
2007	Minami-ke	TV series	Masahiko Ohta	Daume	[6]
2007	Sketchbook ~full color's~	TV series	Yoshimasa Hiraike	Hal Film Maker	[8]
2007-2008	Cory in the House	TV series	Marc Warren (TV producer)	Disney Channel	[9]
2008	Hyakko	TV series	Michio Fukuda	Nippon Animation	[10]
2009	GA Geijutsuka Art Design Class	TV series	Hiroaki Sakurai	AIC	[6]
2009	Hidamari Sketch	TV series	Akiyuki Shinbo, Ryouki Kamitsubo	Shaft	[6]
2009	K-On!	TV series	Naoko Yamada	Kyoto Animation	[6]
2009	Ristorante Paradiso	TV series	Mitsuko Kase	David Production	[11]
2009	Student Council's Discretion	TV series	Takuya Sato	Studio Deen	[6]
2010	And Yet the Town Moves	TV series	Akiyuki Shinbo	Shaft	[6]
2010–2011	Bakuman	TV series	Kenichi Kasai, Noriaki Akitaya	J.C.Staff	[12]
2010	Mitsudomoe	TV series	Masahiko Ohta	Bridge	[6]
2010	Tamayura	OVA	Junichi Sato	Hal Film Maker	[6]
2010	Wagnaria!!	TV series	Yoshimasa Hiraike	A-1 Pictures	[6]
2011	A Channel	TV series	Manabu Ono	Studio Gokumi	[6][13]
2011	Anohana: The Flower We Saw That Day	TV series	Tatsuyuki Nagai	A-1 Pictures	[14]
2011	From Up on Poppy Hill	Film	Gorō Miyazaki	Studio Ghibli	[15]
2011	Hanasaku Iroha	TV series	Masahiro Ando	P.A. Works	[16]
2011	Nichijou	TV series	Tatsuya Ishihara	Kyoto Animation	[6]
2011	Tamayura: Hitotose	TV series	Junichi Sato	TYO Animations	[17]
2011	YuruYuri	TV series	Masahiko Ohta	Dogakobo	[6]
2012	Daily Lives of High School Boys	TV series	Shinji Takamatsu	Sunrise	[18]
2012	Hidamari Sketch x Honeycomb	TV series	Akiyuki Shinbo	Shaft	[19]
2012	Hyōka	TV series	Yasuhiro Takemoto	Kyoto Animation	[20]
2012	Kill Me Baby	TV series	Yoshiki Yamakawa	J.C.Staff	[21]
2012	Kimi to Boku 2	TV series	Mamoru Kanbe	J.C.Staff	[22]
2012	Mysterious Girlfriend X	TV series	Ayumu Watanabe	Hoods Entertainment	[22]
2012	Place to Place	TV series	Fumitoshi Oizaki	AIC	[6]
2012–2013	Shirokuma Cafe	TV series	Mitsuyuki Masuhara	Studio Pierrot	[22]
2012	Teekyu 1	TV series	Shin Itagaki	Mappa	[19]
2012	Wolf Children	Film	Mamoru Hosoda	Studio Chizu, Madhouse	[23]
2012	Yurumates 3D	TV series	Yoshihide Yuuzumi	C2C	[22]
2013	Free!	TV series	Hiroko Utsumi	Kyoto Animation, Animation Do	[24]
2013	Genshiken: Second Season	TV series	Tsutomu Mizushima	Production I.G	[25]
2013	GJ Club	TV series	Yoshiyuki Fujiwara	Dogakobo	[6]
2013	Kin-iro Mosaic	TV series	Tensho	Studio Gokumi	[26]
2013	Kotoura-san	TV series	Masahiko Ohta	AIC Classic	[6]
2013	Love Live!	TV series	Takahiko Kyogoku	Sunrise	
2013	Minami-ke: Tadaima	TV series	Keiichiro Kawaguchi	Feel	[27]
2013	My Teen Romantic Comedy SNAFU	TV series	Ai Yoshimura	Brain's Base	[28]
2013	Non Non Biyori	TV series	Shin'ya Kawatsura	Silver Link	[29]
2013	Servant x Service	TV series	Yasutaka Yamamoto	A-1 Pictures	[25]
2013–2014	Silver Spoon	TV series	Tomohiko Itō	A-1 Pictures	[30][31]
2013	Super Seisyun Brothers	TV series	Masahiro Takata	AIC PLUS+	[32]
2013	Tamako Market	TV series	Naoko Yamada	Kyoto Animation	[6]
2013	Tamayura: More Aggressive	TV series	Junichi Sato	TYO Animations	[25]
2013	WataMote	TV series	Shin Ōnuma	Silver Link	[33]
2013	The Wind Rises	Film	Hayao Miyazaki	Studio Ghibli	[34]
2013	Yuyushiki	TV series	Kaori	Kinema Citrus	
2014	Barakamon	TV series	Masaki Tachibana	Kinema Citrus	[35]
2014	The Comic Artist and His Assistants	TV series	Takeshi Furuta	Zexcs	[36]
2014	Engaged to the Unidentified	TV series	Yoshiyuki Fujiwara	Doga Kobo	[31]
2014	Free! - Eternal Summer	TV series	Hiroko Utsumi	Kyoto Animation, Animation Do	[24]
2014	Is the Order a Rabbit?	TV series	Hiroyuki Hashimoto	White Fox	[36]
2014	My Neighbor Seki	TV series	Yūji Mutoh	Shin-Ei Animation	[37]
2014	Go! Go! 575	TV series	Takefumi Anzai	Lay-duce, C2C	[31]
2014	Soul Eater Not!	TV series	Masakazu Hashimoto	Bones	[38]
2014	Tesagure! Bukatsu-mono Encore	TV series	Kōtarō Ishidate	YAOYOROZU	[31]
2014	Wake Up, Girls!	TV series	Yutaka Yamamoto	Ordet, Tatsunoko Production	[31]
2015	Himouto! Umaru-chan	TV series	Masahiko Ohta	Doga Kobo	[39]
2015	Sound! Euphonium	TV series	Tatsuya Ishihara	Kyoto Animation	[24]
2016	Anne Happy	TV series	Shin Ōnuma	Silver Link	[40]
2016	Haven't You Heard? I'm Sakamoto	TV series	Shinji Takamatsu	Studio Deen	[40]
2016	Tanaka-kun is Always Listless	TV series	Shin'ya Kawatsura	Silver Link	[40]
2017	A Centaur's Life	TV series	Fumitoshi Oizaki	Tokuma Shoten	[41]
2017	Gabriel DropOut	TV series	Masahiko Ohta	Doga Kobo	[42]